================================================================================

linux-6.1.58

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

LICENSES 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GFDL-1.2-only
GNU Free Documentation License

Version 1.2, November 2002

Copyright (C) 2000,2001,2002 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 51 Franklin St,
Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

0. PREAMBLE

The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other functional
and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the
effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it,
either commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for
the author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being
considered responsible for modifications made by others.

This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of the
document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU
General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.

We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software,
because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with
manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is
not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless
of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend
this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.

1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS

This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium, that contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the
terms of this License. Such a notice grants a world-wide, royalty-free license,
unlimited in duration, to use that work under the conditions stated herein. The
"Document", below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of the public
is a licensee, and is addressed as "you". You accept the license if you copy,
modify or distribute the work in a way requiring permission under copyright law.

A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the Document or a
portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated
into another language.

A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the
Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or
authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related
matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall
subject. (Thus, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a
Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a
matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of
legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.

The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are
designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that
the Document is released under this License. If a section does not fit the above
definition of Secondary then it is not allowed to be designated as Invariant.
The Document may contain zero Invariant Sections. If the Document does not
identify any Invariant Sections then there are none.

The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-
Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is
released under this License. A Front-Cover Text may be at most 5 words, and a
Back-Cover Text may be at most 25 words.

A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented
in a format whose specification is available to the general public, that is
suitable for revising the document straightforwardly with generic text editors
or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some
widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text
formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for
input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file format
whose markup, or absence of markup, has been arranged to thwart or discourage
subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent. An image format is not
Transparent if used for any substantial amount of text. A copy that is not
"Transparent" is called "Opaque".

Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without
markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly
available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML, PostScript or PDF designed
for human modification. Examples of transparent image formats include PNG, XCF
and JPG. Opaque formats include proprietary formats that can be read and edited
only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or
processing tools are not generally available, and the machine-generated HTML,
PostScript or PDF produced by some word processors for output purposes only.

The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such
following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License
requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any
title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the most prominent
appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document whose title
either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses following text that
translates XYZ in another language. (Here XYZ stands for a specific section name
mentioned below, such as "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", "Endorsements", or
"History".) To "Preserve the Title" of such a section when you modify the
Document means that it remains a section "Entitled XYZ" according to this
definition.

The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice which states
that this License applies to the Document. These Warranty Disclaimers are
considered to be included by reference in this License, but only as regards
disclaiming warranties: any other implication that these Warranty Disclaimers
may have is void and has no effect on the meaning of this License.

2. VERBATIM COPYING

You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or
noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the
license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all
copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this
License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading
or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept
compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of
copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.

You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may
publicly display copies.

3. COPYING IN QUANTITY

If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly have printed
covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and the Document's license
notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in covers that carry,
clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front
cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must also clearly and
legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The front cover must
present the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and
visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition. Copying with
changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title of the
Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in
other respects.

If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you
should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual
cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.

If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than
100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each
Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a computer-network location
from which the general network-using public has access to download using public-
standard network protocols a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of
added material. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent
steps, when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that
this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until
at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or
through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.

It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document
well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to
provide you with an updated version of the Document.

4. MODIFICATIONS

You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the
conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified
Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role
of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified
Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things
in the Modified Version:

A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct from that
of the Document, and from those of previous versions (which should, if there
were any, be listed in the History section of the Document). You may use the
same title as a previous version if the original publisher of that version gives
permission.

B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified Version,
together with at least five of the principal authors of the Document (all of its
principal authors, if it has fewer than five), unless they release you from this
requirement.

C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the Modified Version, as
the publisher.

D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.

E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications adjacent to the
other copyright notices.

F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice giving the
public permission to use the Modified Version under the terms of this License,
in the form shown in the Addendum below.

G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections and
required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.

H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.

I. Preserve the section Entitled "History", Preserve its Title, and add to it an
item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and publisher of the
Modified Version as given on the Title Page. If there is no section Entitled
"History" in the Document, create one stating the title, year, authors, and
publisher of the Document as given on its Title Page, then add an item
describing the Modified Version as stated in the previous sentence.

J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for public
access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise the network locations
given in the Document for previous versions it was based on. These may be placed
in the "History" section. You may omit a network location for a work that was
published at least four years before the Document itself, or if the original
publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.

K. For any section Entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications", Preserve the
Title of the section, and preserve in the section all the substance and tone of
each of the contributor acknowledgements and/or dedications given therein.

L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered in their text
and in their titles. Section numbers or the equivalent are not considered part
of the section titles.

M. Delete any section Entitled "Endorsements". Such a section may not be
included in the Modified Version.

N. Do not retitle any existing section to be Entitled "Endorsements" or to
conflict in title with any Invariant Section.

O. Preserve any Warranty Disclaimers.

If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that
qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document,
you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To
do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified
Version's license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section
titles.

You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains nothing but
endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties--for example,
statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization
as the authoritative definition of a standard.

You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage
of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in
the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover
Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the
Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by
you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you
may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission
from the previous publisher that added the old one.

The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give
permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply
endorsement of any Modified Version.

5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS

You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License,
under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that
you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the
original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your
combined work in its license notice, and that you preserve all their Warranty
Disclaimers.

The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple
identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are
multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the
title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses,
the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a
unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.

In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled "History" in the
various original documents, forming one section Entitled "History"; likewise
combine any sections Entitled "Acknowledgements", and any sections Entitled
"Dedications". You must delete all sections Entitled "Endorsements".

6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS

You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License
in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection,
provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each
of the documents in all other respects.

You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it
individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into
the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding
verbatim copying of that document.

7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS

A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and
independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution
medium, is called an "aggregate" if the copyright resulting from the compilation
is not used to limit the legal rights of the compilation's users beyond what the
individual works permit. When the Document is included in an aggregate, this
License does not apply to the other works in the aggregate which are not
themselves derivative works of the Document.

If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the
Document, then if the Document is less than one half of the entire aggregate,
the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that bracket the Document
within the aggregate, or the electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is
in electronic form. Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket
the whole aggregate.

8. TRANSLATION

Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute
translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant
Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright
holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in
addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a
translation of this License, and all the license notices in the Document, and
any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also include the original English
version of this License and the original versions of those notices and
disclaimers. In case of a disagreement between the translation and the original
version of this License or a notice or disclaimer, the original version will
prevail.

If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", or
"History", the requirement (section 4) to Preserve its Title (section 1) will
typically require changing the actual title.

9. TERMINATION

You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as
expressly provided for under this License. Any other attempt to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE

The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free
Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns. See http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the
Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License "or any
later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has
been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document
does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version
ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. ADDENDUM: How
to use this License for your documents

To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the
License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just
after the title page:

Copyright (c) YEAR YOUR NAME. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or
modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with
no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License".

If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover Texts, replace
the "with...Texts." line with this:

with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the Front-Cover Texts
being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST.

If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other combination of
the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the situation.

If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend
releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license,
such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GFDL-1.2-no-invariants-or-later
GNU Free Documentation License
Version 1.2, November 2002

Copyright (C) 2000,2001,2002 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 51 Franklin St,
Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

0. PREAMBLE

The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other functional
and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the
effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it,
either commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for
the author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being
considered responsible for modifications made by others.

This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of the
document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU
General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.

We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software,
because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with
manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is
not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless
of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend
this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.

1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS

This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium, that contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the
terms of this License. Such a notice grants a world-wide, royalty-free license,
unlimited in duration, to use that work under the conditions stated herein. The
"Document", below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of the public
is a licensee, and is addressed as "you". You accept the license if you copy,
modify or distribute the work in a way requiring permission under copyright law.

A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the Document or a
portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated
into another language.

A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the
Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or
authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related
matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall
subject. (Thus, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a
Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a
matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of
legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.

The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are
designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that
the Document is released under this License. If a section does not fit the above
definition of Secondary then it is not allowed to be designated as Invariant.
The Document may contain zero Invariant Sections. If the Document does not
identify any Invariant Sections then there are none.

The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-
Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is
released under this License. A Front-Cover Text may be at most 5 words, and a
Back-Cover Text may be at most 25 words.

A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented
in a format whose specification is available to the general public, that is
suitable for revising the document straightforwardly with generic text editors
or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some
widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text
formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for
input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file format
whose markup, or absence of markup, has been arranged to thwart or discourage
subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent. An image format is not
Transparent if used for any substantial amount of text. A copy that is not
"Transparent" is called "Opaque".

Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without
markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly
available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML, PostScript or PDF designed
for human modification. Examples of transparent image formats include PNG, XCF
and JPG. Opaque formats include proprietary formats that can be read and edited
only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or
processing tools are not generally available, and the machine-generated HTML,
PostScript or PDF produced by some word processors for output purposes only.

The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such
following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License
requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any
title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the most prominent
appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document whose title
either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses following text that
translates XYZ in another language. (Here XYZ stands for a specific section name
mentioned below, such as "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", "Endorsements", or
"History".) To "Preserve the Title" of such a section when you modify the
Document means that it remains a section "Entitled XYZ" according to this
definition.

The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice which states
that this License applies to the Document. These Warranty Disclaimers are
considered to be included by reference in this License, but only as regards
disclaiming warranties: any other implication that these Warranty Disclaimers
may have is void and has no effect on the meaning of this License.

2. VERBATIM COPYING

You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or
noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the
license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all
copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this
License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading
or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept
compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of
copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.

You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may
publicly display copies.

3. COPYING IN QUANTITY

If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly have printed
covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and the Document's license
notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in covers that carry,
clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front
cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must also clearly and
legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The front cover must
present the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and
visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition. Copying with
changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title of the
Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in
other respects.

If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you
should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual
cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.

If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than
100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each
Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a computer-network location
from which the general network-using public has access to download using public-
standard network protocols a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of
added material. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent
steps, when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that
this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until
at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or
through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.

It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document
well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to
provide you with an updated version of the Document.

4. MODIFICATIONS

You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the
conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified
Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role
of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified
Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things
in the Modified Version:

A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct from that
of the Document, and from those of previous versions (which should, if there
were any, be listed in the History section of the Document). You may use the
same title as a previous version if the original publisher of that version gives
permission.
B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified Version,
together with at least five of the principal authors of the Document (all of its
principal authors, if it has fewer than five), unless they release you from this
requirement.
C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the Modified Version, as
the publisher.
D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications adjacent to the
other copyright notices.
F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice giving the
public permission to use the Modified Version under the terms of this License,
in the form shown in the Addendum below.
G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections and
required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.
H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.
I. Preserve the section Entitled "History", Preserve its Title, and add to it an
item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and publisher of the
Modified Version as given on the Title Page. If there is no section Entitled
"History" in the Document, create one stating the title, year, authors, and
publisher of the Document as given on its Title Page, then add an item
describing the Modified Version as stated in the previous sentence.
J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for public
access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise the network locations
given in the Document for previous versions it was based on. These may be placed
in the "History" section. You may omit a network location for a work that was
published at least four years before the Document itself, or if the original
publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.
K. For any section Entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications", Preserve the
Title of the section, and preserve in the section all the substance and tone of
each of the contributor acknowledgements and/or dedications given therein.
L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered in their text
and in their titles. Section numbers or the equivalent are not considered part
of the section titles.
M. Delete any section Entitled "Endorsements". Such a section may not be
included in the Modified Version.
N. Do not retitle any existing section to be Entitled "Endorsements" or to
conflict in title with any Invariant Section.
O. Preserve any Warranty Disclaimers.

If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that
qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document,
you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To
do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified
Version's license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section
titles.

You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains nothing but
endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties--for example,
statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization
as the authoritative definition of a standard.

You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage
of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in
the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover
Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the
Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by
you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you
may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission
from the previous publisher that added the old one.

The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give
permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply
endorsement of any Modified Version.

5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS

You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License,
under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that
you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the
original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your
combined work in its license notice, and that you preserve all their Warranty
Disclaimers.

The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple
identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are
multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the
title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses,
the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a
unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.

In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled "History" in the
various original documents, forming one section Entitled "History"; likewise
combine any sections Entitled "Acknowledgements", and any sections Entitled
"Dedications". You must delete all sections Entitled "Endorsements".

6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS

You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License
in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection,
provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each
of the documents in all other respects.

You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it
individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into
the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding
verbatim copying of that document.

7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS

A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and
independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution
medium, is called an "aggregate" if the copyright resulting from the compilation
is not used to limit the legal rights of the compilation's users beyond what the
individual works permit. When the Document is included in an aggregate, this
License does not apply to the other works in the aggregate which are not
themselves derivative works of the Document.

If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the
Document, then if the Document is less than one half of the entire aggregate,
the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that bracket the Document
within the aggregate, or the electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is
in electronic form. Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket
the whole aggregate.

8. TRANSLATION

Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute
translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant
Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright
holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in
addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a
translation of this License, and all the license notices in the Document, and
any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also include the original English
version of this License and the original versions of those notices and
disclaimers. In case of a disagreement between the translation and the original
version of this License or a notice or disclaimer, the original version will
prevail.

If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", or
"History", the requirement (section 4) to Preserve its Title (section 1) will
typically require changing the actual title.

9. TERMINATION

You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as
expressly provided for under this License. Any other attempt to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE

The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free
Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns. See http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the
Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License "or any
later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has
been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document
does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version
ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.

ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents

To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the
License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just
after the title page:

Copyright (c) YEAR YOUR NAME. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or
modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with
no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License".

If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover Texts, replace
the "with...Texts." line with this:

with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the Front-Cover Texts
being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST.

If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other combination of
the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the situation.

If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend
releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license,
such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.1-only WITH Linux-syscall-note
GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2.1, February 1999

Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts
as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence
the version number 2.1.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.

This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some
specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the
Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You
can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether
this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better
strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use,
not price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that
you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge
for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get
it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of
it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do
these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these
rights. These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for
you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave
you. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code. If you link other code with the library, you must provide
complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them
with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling
it. And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the
library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that
there is no warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know
that what they have is not the original version, so that the original
author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be
introduced by others.

Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of
any free program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot
effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a
restrictive license from a patent holder. Therefore, we insist that
any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be
consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the
ordinary GNU General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser
General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and
is quite different from the ordinary General Public License. We use
this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those
libraries into non-free programs.

When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using
a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a
combined work, a derivative of the original library. The ordinary
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the
entire combination fits its criteria of freedom. The Lesser General
Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with
the library.

We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it
does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General
Public License. It also provides other free software developers Less
of an advantage over competing non-free programs. These disadvantages
are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many
libraries. However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain
special circumstances.

For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to
encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes
a de-facto standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be
allowed to use the library. A more frequent case is that a free
library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries. In this
case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free
software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free
programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of
free software. For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in
non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU
operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating
system.

Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the
users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is
linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run
that program using a modified version of the Library.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library". The
former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must
be combined with the library in order to run.

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other
program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or
other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License").
Each licensee is addressed as "you".

A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work
which has been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated
straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is
included without limitation in the term "modification".)

"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation
and installation of the library.

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for
writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the Library does
and what the program that uses the Library does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the
Library.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a
fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices
stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no
charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a
table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses
the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility
is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,
in the event an application does not supply such function or
table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
its purpose remains meaningful.

(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has
a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the
application. Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any
application-supplied function or table used by this function must
be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,
instead of to this License. (If a newer version than version 2 of the
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify
that version instead if you wish.) Do not make any other change in
these notices.

Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.

This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of
the Library into a program that is not a library.

4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange.

If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library". Such a
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the
library". The executable is therefore covered by this License.
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library. The
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative
work. (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the
Library will still fall under Section 6.)

Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.

6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by
this License. You must supply a copy of this License. If the work
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference
directing the user to the copy of this License. Also, you must do one
of these things:

a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever
changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under
Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked
with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that
uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified
executable containing the modified Library. (It is understood
that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the
Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application
to use the modified definitions.)

b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
Library. A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a
copy of the library already present on the user's computer system,
rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2)
will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if
the user installs one, as long as the modified version is
interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at
least three years, to give the same user the materials
specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more
than the cost of performing this distribution.

d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above
specified materials from the same place.

e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these
materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.

For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the executable from it. However, as a special exception,
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
the executable.

It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally
accompany the operating system. Such a contradiction means you cannot
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you
distribute.

7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
based on the Library, uncombined with any other library
facilities. This must be distributed under the terms of the
Sections above.

b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact
that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining
where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute
the Library except as expressly provided under this License. Any
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your
rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies,
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Library or its derivative works. These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Library or works based on it.

10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library
subject to these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with
this License.

11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Library at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system which is
implemented by public license practices. Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus
excluded. In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if
written in the body of this License.

13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time.
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation. If the Library does not specify a
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,
write to the author to ask for permission. For software which is
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this. Our
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
and reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that
everyone can redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting
redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the
ordinary General Public License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if
necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the
library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.

<signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990
Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

NOTE! This copyright does *not* cover user programs that use kernel
services by normal system calls - this is merely considered normal use
of the kernel, and does *not* fall under the heading of "derived work".
Also note that the GPL below is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, but the instance of code that it refers to (the Linux
kernel) is copyrighted by me and others who actually wrote it.

Also note that the only valid version of the GPL as far as the kernel
is concerned is _this_ particular version of the license (ie v2, not
v2.2 or v3.x or whatever), unless explicitly otherwise stated.

Linus Torvalds
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-only WITH Linking-exception
GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is not
restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code as
you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately
publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty;
keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at
your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating that you
changed the files and the date of any change.

b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole or in
part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be licensed
as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run, you
must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with the
Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under Section
2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above
provided that you also do one of the following:

a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code,
which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
customarily used for software interchange; or,

b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to give
any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically performing
source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the corresponding
source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to distribute
corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for noncommercial
distribution and only if you received the program in object code or executable
form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code
from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though third
parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement
or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed
on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the
conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this
License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your
obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a
consequence you may not distribute the Program at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by all those
who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you
could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from
distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program specifies
a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version",
you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version
or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does. Copyright (C)
yyyy name of author

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin
Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA. Also add information on how to
contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice

As a special exception, the copyright holders of this software give you
permission to link this software with independent modules, and to copy and
distribute the resulting executable under terms of your choice, provided that
you also meet, for each linked independent module, the terms and conditions
of the license of that module. An independent module is a module which is
not derived from this software. The special exception does not apply to any
modifications of the software.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-1.0-or-later WITH SRC-note
GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 1, February 1989

Copyright (C) 1989 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The license agreements of most software companies try to keep users at the mercy
of those companies. By contrast, our General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. The General Public License applies to the
Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors
commit to using it. You can use it for your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.
Specifically, the General Public License is designed to make sure that you have
the freedom to give away or sell copies of free software, that you receive
source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the software or
use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can do these
things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of a such a program, whether gratis or for
a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must tell them
their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND
MODIFICATION

   0. This License Agreement applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the
terms of this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such
program or work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or
any work containing the Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with
modifications. Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this General
Public License and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients
of the Program a copy of this General Public License along with the Program. You
may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
and copy and distribute such modifications under the terms of Paragraph 1 above,
provided that you also do the following:

      a) cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating that you
changed the files and the date of any change; and

      b) cause the whole of any work that you distribute or publish, that in
whole or in part contains the Program or any part thereof, either with or
without modifications, to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under
the terms of this General Public License (except that you may choose to grant
warranty protection to some or all third parties, at your option).

      c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the simplest
and most usual way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this General Public
License.

      d) You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   Mere aggregation of another independent work with the Program (or its
derivative) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the
other work under the scope of these terms.

   3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Paragraph 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Paragraphs 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

      a) accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

      b) accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party free (except for a nominal charge for the cost of
distribution) a complete machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code,
to be distributed under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

      c) accompany it with the information you received as to where the
corresponding source code may be obtained. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form alone.)

   Source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable file, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains; but, as a special exception, it need
not include source code for modules which are standard libraries that accompany
the operating system on which the executable file runs, or for standard header
files or definitions files that accompany that operating system.

   4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer the Program
except as expressly provided under this General Public License. Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights to use the Program under this
License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights to use copies,
from you under this General Public License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   5. By copying, distributing or modifying the Program (or any work based on
the Program) you indicate your acceptance of this license to do so, and all its
terms and conditions.

   6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein.

   7. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of the license which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Program does not specify a version number of the license, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   8. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   9.

   BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   10. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

Appendix: How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to humanity, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) 19yy <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 1, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) 19xx name of author Gnomovision comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here a
sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (a program to direct compilers to make passes at assemblers)
written by James Hacker.

<signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

In addition to the disclaimers in the GPL, SRC expressly disclaims any
and all warranties, expressed or implied, concerning the enclosed software.
This software was developed at SRC for use in internal research, and the
intent in sharing this software is to promote the productive interchange
of ideas throughout the research community. All software is furnished
on an "as-is" basis. No further updates to this software should be
expected. Although updates may occur, no commitment exists.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice-Adaptec
Redistribution and use in source form, with or without modification, are
permitted provided that redistributions of source code must retain the
above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

This software is provided ``as is`` by Adaptec and
any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, the
implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose,
are disclaimed. In no event shall Adaptec be
liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary or
consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of
substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business
interruptions) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in
contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise)
arising in any way out of the use of this driver software, even if advised
of the possibility of such damage.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice-John-Hauser
THIS SOFTWARE IS DISTRIBUTED AS IS, FOR FREE. Although reasonable effort
has been made to avoid it, THIS SOFTWARE MAY CONTAIN FAULTS THAT WILL AT
TIMES RESULT IN INCORRECT BEHAVIOR. USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IS RESTRICTED TO
PERSONS AND ORGANIZATIONS WHO CAN AND WILL TAKE FULL RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY
AND ALL LOSSES, COSTS, OR OTHER PROBLEMS ARISING FROM ITS USE.

Derivative works are acceptable, even for commercial purposes, so long as
(1) they include prominent notice that the work is derivative, and (2) they
include prominent notice akin to these three paragraphs for those parts of
this code that are retained.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ISC-Style-Red-Hat
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice appears in all copies. This software is provided without any
warranty, express or implied. Red Hat makes no representations about
the suitability of this software for any purpose.

IN NO EVENT SHALL RED HAT BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF
THIS SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF RED HAT HAS BEEN ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

RED HAT DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. THE SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND
RED HAT HAS NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES,
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CMU-License
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and
its documentation is hereby granted (including for commercial or
for-profit use), provided that both the copyright notice and this
permission notice appear in all copies of the software, derivative
works, or modified versions, and any portions thereof.

THIS SOFTWARE IS EXPERIMENTAL AND IS KNOWN TO HAVE BUGS, SOME OF
WHICH MAY HAVE SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES. CARNEGIE MELLON PROVIDES THIS
SOFTWARE IN ITS ``AS IS'' CONDITION, AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

Carnegie Mellon encourages (but does not require) users of this
software to return any improvements or extensions that they make,
and to grant Carnegie Mellon the rights to redistribute these
changes without encumbrance.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CMU-License

Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the
software, derivative works or modified versions, and any portions
thereof, and that both notices appear in supporting documentation, and
that credit is given to Carnegie Mellon University in all documents
and publicity pertaining to direct or indirect use of this code or its
derivatives.

CODA IS AN EXPERIMENTAL SOFTWARE SYSTEM AND IS KNOWN TO HAVE BUGS,
SOME OF WHICH MAY HAVE SERIOUS CONSEQUENCES. CARNEGIE MELLON ALLOWS
FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS" CONDITION. CARNEGIE MELLON
DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
RESULTING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE OR OF
ANY DERIVATIVE WORK.

Carnegie Mellon encourages users of this software to return any
improvements or extensions that they make, and to grant Carnegie
Mellon the rights to redistribute these changes without encumbrance.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CMU-License

Export of this software from the United States of America may
require a specific license from the United States Government.
It is the responsibility of any person or organization contemplating
export to obtain such a license before exporting.

WITHIN THAT CONSTRAINT, permission to use, copy, modify, and
distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and
without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and
this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that
the name of M.I.T. not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining
to distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission. Furthermore if you modify this software you must label
your software as modified software and not distribute it in such a
fashion that it might be confused with the original M.I.T. software.
M.I.T. makes no representations about the suitability of
this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express
or implied warranty.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FundsXpress-License
Export of this software from the United States of America may require
a specific license from the United States Government. It is the
responsibility of any person or organization contemplating export to
obtain such a license before exporting.

WITHIN THAT CONSTRAINT, permission to use, copy, modify, and
distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and
without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and
this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that
the name of FundsXpress. not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining
to distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission. FundsXpress makes no representations about the suitability of
this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express
or implied warranty.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unicode-DFS

UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE

See Terms of Use <https://www.unicode.org/copyright.html>
for definitions of Unicode Inc.’s Data Files and Software.

NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement.
BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING UNICODE INC.'S
DATA FILES ("DATA FILES"), AND/OR SOFTWARE ("SOFTWARE"),
YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND AGREE TO BE BOUND BY, ALL OF THE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT.
IF YOU DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, DISTRIBUTE OR USE
THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.

COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE

Copyright © 1991-2023 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved.
Distributed under the Terms of Use in https://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of the Unicode data files and any associated documentation
(the "Data Files") or Unicode software and any associated documentation
(the "Software") to deal in the Data Files or Software
without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of
the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the Data Files
or Software are furnished to do so, provided that either
(a) this copyright and permission notice appear with all copies
of the Data Files or Software, or
(b) this copyright and permission notice appear in associated
Documentation.

THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF
ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS
NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale,
use or other dealings in these Data Files or Software without prior
written authorization of the copyright holder.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unicode-DFS

COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE

Copyright 1991-2012 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved. Distributed under
the Terms of Use in http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of the Unicode data files and any associated documentation (the "Data
Files") or Unicode software and any associated documentation (the
"Software") to deal in the Data Files or Software without restriction,
including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,
publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Data Files or Software, and
to permit persons to whom the Data Files or Software are furnished to do
so, provided that (a) the above copyright notice(s) and this permission
notice appear with all copies of the Data Files or Software, (b) both the
above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in associated
documentation, and (c) there is clear notice in each modified Data File or
in the Software as well as in the documentation associated with the Data
File(s) or Software that the data or software has been modified.

THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF
THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS
INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THE DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall
not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other
dealings in these Data Files or Software without prior written
authorization of the copyright holder.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-or-later WITH eCos-exception-2.0

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users. This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software. If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents. We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License. The "Program", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
parties under the terms of this License.

c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
License. (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
the Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
customarily used for software interchange; or,

c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
to distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is
allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
received the program in object code or executable form with such
an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable. However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works. These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices. Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded. In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA


Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author
Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

<signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs. If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library. If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General
Public License instead of this License.

As a special exception, if other files instantiate templates or use
macros or inline functions from these files, or you compile these
files and link them with other works to produce a work based on these
files, these files do not by themselves cause the resulting work to be
covered by the GNU General Public License. However the source code for
these files must still be made available in accordance with section (3)
of the GNU General Public License.

This exception does not invalidate any other reasons why a work based on
this file might be covered by the GNU General Public License.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.1-or-later WITH Linux-syscall-note
                  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 2.1, February 1999

 Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts
 as the successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence
 the version number 2.1.]

                            Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some
specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the
Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it.  You
can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether
this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better
strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use,
not price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that
you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge
for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get
it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of
it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do
these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these
rights.  These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for
you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave
you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code.  If you link other code with the library, you must provide
complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them
with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling
it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

  We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the
library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

  To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that
there is no warranty for the free library.  Also, if the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know
that what they have is not the original version, so that the original
author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be
introduced by others.

  Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of
any free program.  We wish to make sure that a company cannot
effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a
restrictive license from a patent holder.  Therefore, we insist that
any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be
consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the
ordinary GNU General Public License.  This license, the GNU Lesser
General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and
is quite different from the ordinary General Public License.  We use
this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those
libraries into non-free programs.

  When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using
a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a
combined work, a derivative of the original library.  The ordinary
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the
entire combination fits its criteria of freedom.  The Lesser General
Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with
the library.

  We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it
does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General
Public License.  It also provides other free software developers Less
of an advantage over competing non-free programs.  These disadvantages
are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many
libraries.  However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain
special circumstances.

  For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to
encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes
a de-facto standard.  To achieve this, non-free programs must be
allowed to use the library.  A more frequent case is that a free
library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries.  In this
case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free
software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

  In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free
programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of
free software.  For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in
non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU
operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating
system.

  Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the
users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is
linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run
that program using a modified version of the Library.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The
former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must
be combined with the library in order to run.

                  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other
program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or
other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License").
Each licensee is addressed as "you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work
which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated
straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
included without limitation in the term "modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation
and installation of the library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for
writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does
and what the program that uses the Library does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the
Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a
fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no
    charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a
    table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses
    the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility
    is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,
    in the event an application does not supply such function or
    table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
    its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has
    a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the
    application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any
    application-supplied function or table used by this function must
    be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
    root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,
instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify
that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in
these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of
the Library into a program that is not a library.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the
library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License.
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the
Library will still fall under Section 6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.

  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by
this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference
directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one
of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding
    machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever
    changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under
    Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that
    uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified
    executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood
    that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application
    to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
    Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a
    copy of the library already present on the user's computer system,
    rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2)
    will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if
    the user installs one, as long as the modified version is
    interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

    c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at
    least three years, to give the same user the materials
    specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more
    than the cost of performing this distribution.

    d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above
    specified materials from the same place.

    e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you
distribute.

  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library
    facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the
    Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute
the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies,
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Library or works based on it.

  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with
this License.

  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus
excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if
written in the body of this License.

  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time.
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,
write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
and reuse of software generally.

                            NO WARRANTY

  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

           How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

  If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that
everyone can redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting
redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the
ordinary General Public License).

  To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
    version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
    Lesser General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301
USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the
  library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

NOTE! This copyright does *not* cover user programs that use kernel
services by normal system calls - this is merely considered normal use
of the kernel, and does *not* fall under the heading of "derived work".
Also note that the GPL below is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, but the instance of code that it refers to (the Linux
kernel) is copyrighted by me and others who actually wrote it.

Also note that the only valid version of the GPL as far as the kernel
is concerned is _this_ particular version of the license (ie v2, not
v2.2 or v3.x or whatever), unless explicitly otherwise stated.

Linus Torvalds
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

M-Systems-Patent-License
The FTL format is patented by M-Systems. They have
granted a license for its use with PCMCIA devices:

"M-Systems grants a royalty-free, non-exclusive license under
any presently existing M-Systems intellectual property rights
necessary for the design and development of FTL-compatible
drivers, file systems and utilities using the data formats with
PCMCIA PC Cards as described in the PCMCIA Flash Translation
Layer (FTL) Specification."

Use of the FTL format for non-PCMCIA applications may be an
infringement of these patents. For additional information,
contact M-Systems directly. M-Systems since acquired by Sandisk.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-or-later WITH GCC-exception-2.0

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users. This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software. If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents. We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License. The "Program", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
parties under the terms of this License.

c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
License. (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
the Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
customarily used for software interchange; or,

c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
to distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is
allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
received the program in object code or executable form with such
an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable. However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works. These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices. Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded. In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.


Copyright (C)  

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA


Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author
Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

, 1 April 1989
Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs. If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library. If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General
Public License instead of this License.

As a special exception, if you link this library with files
compiled with GCC to produce an executable, this does not cause
the resulting executable to be covered by the GNU General Public License.
This exception does not however invalidate any other reasons why
the executable file might be covered by the GNU General Public License.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-or-later WITH GCC-exception-2.0
		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
		       Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
                 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

			    Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

		    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term "modification".)  Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
    whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
    part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
    parties under the terms of this License.

    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
    when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
    interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
    announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
    notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
    a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
    these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
    License.  (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
    does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
    the Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
    source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
    1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
    years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
    cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
    machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
    distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
    customarily used for software interchange; or,

    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
    to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is
    allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
    received the program in object code or executable form with such
    an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable.  However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

  10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

			    NO WARRANTY

  11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

		     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

	    How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301,
USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author
    Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
  `Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General
Public License instead of this License.

In addition to the permissions in the GNU General Public License, the
Free Software Foundation gives you unlimited permission to link the
compiled version of this file with other programs, and to distribute
those programs without any restriction coming from the use of this
file.  (The General Public License restrictions do apply in other
respects; for example, they cover modification of the file, and
distribution when not linked into another program.)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Prior-BSD-License

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms are permitted
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
duplicated in all such forms and that any documentation,
advertising materials, and other materials related to such
distribution and use acknowledge that the software was developed
by the University of California, Berkeley. The name of the
University may not be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Restricted-rights

This material is licensed to you strictly for use in conjunction with
the use of COPS LocalTalk adapters.
There is no charge for this SDK. And no waranty express or implied
about its fitness for any purpose. However, we will cheerefully
refund every penny you paid for this SDK...
Regards,

Thomas F. Divine
Chief Scientist

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-1.0-or-later WITH Linux-syscall-note
                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                     Version 1, February 1989

 Copyright (C) 1989 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
                    51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble

  The license agreements of most software companies try to keep users
at the mercy of those companies.  By contrast, our General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  The
General Public License applies to the Free Software Foundation's
software and to any other program whose authors commit to using it.
You can use it for your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Specifically, the General Public License is designed to make
sure that you have the freedom to give away or sell copies of free
software, that you receive source code or can get it if you want it,
that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new free
programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of a such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code.  And you must tell them their rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any program or other work which
contains a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be
distributed under the terms of this General Public License.  The
"Program", below, refers to any such program or work, and a "work based
on the Program" means either the Program or any work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications.  Each
licensee is addressed as "you".

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source
code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this
General Public License and to the absence of any warranty; and give any
other recipients of the Program a copy of this General Public License
along with the Program.  You may charge a fee for the physical act of
transferring a copy.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of
it, and copy and distribute such modifications under the terms of Paragraph
1 above, provided that you also do the following:

    a) cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating that
    you changed the files and the date of any change; and

    b) cause the whole of any work that you distribute or publish, that
    in whole or in part contains the Program or any part thereof, either
    with or without modifications, to be licensed at no charge to all
    third parties under the terms of this General Public License (except
    that you may choose to grant warranty protection to some or all
    third parties, at your option).

    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when
    run, you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use
    in the simplest and most usual way, to print or display an
    announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a notice
    that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide a
    warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
    conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this General
    Public License.

    d) You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a
    copy, and you may at your option offer warranty protection in
    exchange for a fee.

Mere aggregation of another independent work with the Program (or its
derivative) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring
the other work under the scope of these terms.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a portion or derivative of
it, under Paragraph 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Paragraphs 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

    a) accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
    source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
    Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

    b) accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
    years, to give any third party free (except for a nominal charge
    for the cost of distribution) a complete machine-readable copy of the
    corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of
    Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

    c) accompany it with the information you received as to where the
    corresponding source code may be obtained.  (This alternative is
    allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
    received the program in object code or executable form alone.)

Source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it.  For an executable file, complete source code means
all the source code for all modules it contains; but, as a special
exception, it need not include source code for modules which are standard
libraries that accompany the operating system on which the executable
file runs, or for standard header files or definitions files that
accompany that operating system.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer the
Program except as expressly provided under this General Public License.
Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer
the Program is void, and will automatically terminate your rights to use
the Program under this License.  However, parties who have received
copies, or rights to use copies, from you under this General Public
License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such parties
remain in full compliance.

  5. By copying, distributing or modifying the Program (or any work based
on the Program) you indicate your acceptance of this license to do so,
and all its terms and conditions.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these
terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further restrictions on the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.

  7. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of the license which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of
the license, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

  8. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

                            NO WARRANTY

  9. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  10. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

        Appendix: How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to humanity, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these
terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest to
attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey
the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) 19yy  <name of author>

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 1, or (at your option)
    any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston MA  02110-1301 USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) 19xx name of author
    Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the
appropriate parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the
commands you use may be called something other than `show w' and `show
c'; they could even be mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your
program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary.  Here a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the
  program `Gnomovision' (a program to direct compilers to make passes
  at assemblers) written by James Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

NOTE! This copyright does *not* cover user programs that use kernel
services by normal system calls - this is merely considered normal use
of the kernel, and does *not* fall under the heading of "derived work".
Also note that the GPL below is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, but the instance of code that it refers to (the Linux
kernel) is copyrighted by me and others who actually wrote it.

Also note that the only valid version of the GPL as far as the kernel
is concerned is _this_ particular version of the license (ie v2, not
v2.2 or v3.x or whatever), unless explicitly otherwise stated.

Linus Torvalds
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.0-or-later WITH Linux-syscall-note
                  GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the library GPL.  It is
 numbered 2 because it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.]

                            Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some
specially designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any
other libraries whose authors decide to use it.  You can use it for
your libraries, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if
you distribute copies of the library, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave
you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code.  If you link a program with the library, you must provide
complete object files to the recipients so that they can relink them
with the library, after making changes to the library and recompiling
it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

  Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright
the library, and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

  Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
library.  If the library is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original
version, so that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on
the original authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that companies distributing free
software will individually obtain patent licenses, thus in effect
transforming the program into proprietary software.  To prevent this,
we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's
free use or not licensed at all.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary
GNU General Public License, which was designed for utility programs.  This
license, the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain
designated libraries.  This license is quite different from the ordinary
one; be sure to read it in full, and don't assume that anything in it is
the same as in the ordinary license.

  The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that
they blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a
program and simply using it.  Linking a program with a library, without
changing the library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is
analogous to running a utility program or application program.  However, in
a textual and legal sense, the linked executable is a combined work, a
derivative of the original library, and the ordinary General Public License
treats it as such.

  Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General
Public License for libraries did not effectively promote software
sharing, because most developers did not use the libraries.  We
concluded that weaker conditions might promote sharing better.

  However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the
users of those programs of all benefit from the free status of the
libraries themselves.  This Library General Public License is intended to
permit developers of non-free programs to use free libraries, while
preserving your freedom as a user of such programs to change the free
libraries that are incorporated in them.  (We have not seen how to achieve
this as regards changes in header files, but we have achieved it as regards
changes in the actual functions of the Library.)  The hope is that this
will lead to faster development of free libraries.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The
former contains code derived from the library, while the latter only
works together with the library.

  Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary
General Public License rather than by this special one.

                  GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library which
contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized
party saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Library
General Public License (also called "this License").  Each licensee is
addressed as "you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work
which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated
straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
included without limitation in the term "modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation
and installation of the library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for
writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does
and what the program that uses the Library does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the
Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a
fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no
    charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a
    table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses
    the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility
    is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,
    in the event an application does not supply such function or
    table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
    its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has
    a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the
    application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any
    application-supplied function or table used by this function must
    be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
    root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,
instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify
that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in
these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of
the Library into a program that is not a library.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the
library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License.
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the
Library will still fall under Section 6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.

  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by
this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference
directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one
of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding
    machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever
    changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under
    Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that
    uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified
    executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood
    that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application
    to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at
    least three years, to give the same user the materials
    specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more
    than the cost of performing this distribution.

    c) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above
    specified materials from the same place.

    d) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,
the source code distributed need not include anything that is normally
distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you
distribute.

  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library
    facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the
    Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute
the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies,
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Library or works based on it.

  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus
excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if
written in the body of this License.

  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
versions of the Library General Public License from time to time.
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,
write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
and reuse of software generally.

                            NO WARRANTY

  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

           How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

  If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that
everyone can redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting
redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the
ordinary General Public License).

  To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
    License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
    version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
    Library General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301
USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the
  library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!

NOTE! This copyright does *not* cover user programs that use kernel
services by normal system calls - this is merely considered normal use
of the kernel, and does *not* fall under the heading of "derived work".
Also note that the GPL below is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, but the instance of code that it refers to (the Linux
kernel) is copyrighted by me and others who actually wrote it.

Also note that the only valid version of the GPL as far as the kernel
is concerned is _this_ particular version of the license (ie v2, not
v2.2 or v3.x or whatever), unless explicitly otherwise stated.

Linus Torvalds
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-or-later WITH Linux-syscall-note
GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users. This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software. If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents. We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License. The "Program", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
parties under the terms of this License.

c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
License. (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
the Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
customarily used for software interchange; or,

c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
to distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is
allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
received the program in object code or executable form with such
an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable. However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works. These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices. Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded. In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author
Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

<signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs. If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library. If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General
Public License instead of this License.

NOTE! This copyright does *not* cover user programs that use kernel
services by normal system calls - this is merely considered normal use
of the kernel, and does *not* fall under the heading of "derived work".
Also note that the GPL below is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, but the instance of code that it refers to (the Linux
kernel) is copyrighted by me and others who actually wrote it.

Also note that the only valid version of the GPL as far as the kernel
is concerned is _this_ particular version of the license (ie v2, not
v2.2 or v3.x or whatever), unless explicitly otherwise stated.

Linus Torvalds
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-syscall-note
             GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users. This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Library General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price. Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have. You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software. If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents. We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License. The "Program", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
parties under the terms of this License.

c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
License. (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
the Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works. But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
customarily used for software interchange; or,

c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
to distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is
allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
received the program in object code or executable form with such
an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable. However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works. These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions. You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices. Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded. In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author
Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary. Here is a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

<signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs. If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library. If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General
Public License instead of this License.

NOTE! This copyright does *not* cover user programs that use kernel
services by normal system calls - this is merely considered normal use
of the kernel, and does *not* fall under the heading of "derived work".
Also note that the GPL below is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, but the instance of code that it refers to (the Linux
kernel) is copyrighted by me and others who actually wrote it.

Also note that the only valid version of the GPL as far as the kernel
is concerned is _this_ particular version of the license (ie v2, not
v2.2 or v3.x or whatever), unless explicitly otherwise stated.

Linus Torvalds
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

This document is in the public domain. The authors requests, however,
that semantically altered versions are not distributed without
permission of the authors, assuming the authors can be contacted without
an unreasonable effort.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

The source code is copyrighted under U.S. and  
  international laws. Users and possessors of this source code are  
  hereby granted a nonexclusive, royalty-free copyright license to  
  use this code in individual and commercial software.  
   
  Any use of this source code must include, in the user documenta-  
  tion and internal comments to the code, notices to the end user  
  as follows:  
   
Copyright 2003 NVIDIA, Corporation. All rights reserved.
   
  NVIDIA, CORPORATION MAKES NO REPRESENTATION ABOUT THE SUITABILITY  
  OF THIS SOURCE CODE FOR ANY PURPOSE. IT IS PROVIDED "AS IS"  
  WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. NVIDIA, CORPOR-  
  ATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOURCE CODE,  
  INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGE-  
  MENT, AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN NO EVENT SHALL  
  NVIDIA, CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCI-  
  DENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RE-  
  SULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION  
  OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF  
  OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOURCE CODE.  
   
  U.S. Government End Users. This source code is a "commercial  
  item," as that term is defined at 48 C.F.R. 2.101 (OCT 1995),  
  consisting of "commercial computer software" and "commercial  
  computer software documentation," as such terms are used in  
  48 C.F.R. 12.212 (SEPT 1995) and is provided to the U.S. Govern-  
  ment only as a commercial end item. Consistent with 48 C.F.R.  
  12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (JUNE 1995),  
  all U.S. Government End Users acquire the source code with only  
  those rights set forth herein.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

The source code is copyrighted under U.S. and  
  international laws. Users and possessors of this source code are  
  hereby granted a nonexclusive, royalty-free copyright license to  
  use this code in individual and commercial software.  
   
  Any use of this source code must include, in the user documenta-  
  tion and internal comments to the code, notices to the end user  
  as follows:  
   
  Copyright 1993-1999 NVIDIA, Corporation. All rights reserved.  
   
  NVIDIA, CORPORATION MAKES NO REPRESENTATION ABOUT THE SUITABILITY  
  OF THIS SOURCE CODE FOR ANY PURPOSE. IT IS PROVIDED "AS IS"  
  WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. NVIDIA, CORPOR-  
  ATION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOURCE CODE,  
  INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGE-  
  MENT, AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. IN NO EVENT SHALL  
  NVIDIA, CORPORATION BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCI-  
  DENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RE-  
  SULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION  
  OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF  
  OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOURCE CODE.  
   
  U.S. Government End Users. This source code is a "commercial  
  item," as that term is defined at 48 C.F.R. 2.101 (OCT 1995),  
  consisting of "commercial computer software" and "commercial  
  computer software documentation," as such terms are used in  
  48 C.F.R. 12.212 (SEPT 1995) and is provided to the U.S. Govern-  
  ment only as a commercial end item. Consistent with 48 C.F.R.  
  12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (JUNE 1995),  
  all U.S. Government End Users acquire the source code with only  
  those rights set forth herein.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

TRW Financial Systems, in accordance with their agreement with Carnegie
Mellon University, makes this software available to CMU to distribute
or use in any manner that they see fit as long as this message is kept with
the software. For this reason TFS also grants any other persons or
organisations permission to use or modify this software.

TFS supplies this software to be publicly redistributed
on the understanding that TFS is not responsible for the correct
functioning of this software in any circumstances.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice appears in all copies. This software is provided without any
warranty, express or implied.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation. This software is provided "as is" without express or
implied warranty.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

Permission to use, copy, modify and distribute this software and its
documentation is hereby granted, provided that both the copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in all copies of the software,
derivative works or modified versions, and any portions thereof, and
that both notices appear in supporting documentation.

NRL ALLOWS FREE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE IN ITS "AS IS" CONDITION AND
DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY OF ANY KIND FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
RESULTING FROM THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

Permission is hereby granted for the distribution of this firmware
data in hexadecimal or equivalent format, provided this copyright
notice is accompanying it.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

I hereby give permission, free of charge, to copy, modify, and
redistribute this software, in source or binary form, provided that
the above copyright notice and the following disclaimer are included
in all such copies.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITH ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY, REAL
OR IMPLIED.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

License-of-GNU-Licenses
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GFDL-1.2-no-invariants-only

GNU Free Documentation License
Version 1.2, November 2002

Copyright (C) 2000,2001,2002 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 51 Franklin St,
Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

0. PREAMBLE

The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other functional
and useful document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the
effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it,
either commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for
the author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being
considered responsible for modifications made by others.

This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of the
document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU
General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.

We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software,
because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with
manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is
not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless
of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend
this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.

1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS

This License applies to any manual or other work, in any medium, that contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the
terms of this License. Such a notice grants a world-wide, royalty-free license,
unlimited in duration, to use that work under the conditions stated herein. The
"Document", below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of the public
is a licensee, and is addressed as "you". You accept the license if you copy,
modify or distribute the work in a way requiring permission under copyright law.

A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the Document or a
portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated
into another language.

A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the
Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or
authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related
matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall
subject. (Thus, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a
Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a
matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of
legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.

The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are
designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that
the Document is released under this License. If a section does not fit the above
definition of Secondary then it is not allowed to be designated as Invariant.
The Document may contain zero Invariant Sections. If the Document does not
identify any Invariant Sections then there are none.

The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-
Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is
released under this License. A Front-Cover Text may be at most 5 words, and a
Back-Cover Text may be at most 25 words.

A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented
in a format whose specification is available to the general public, that is
suitable for revising the document straightforwardly with generic text editors
or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some
widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text
formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for
input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file format
whose markup, or absence of markup, has been arranged to thwart or discourage
subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent. An image format is not
Transparent if used for any substantial amount of text. A copy that is not
"Transparent" is called "Opaque".

Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without
markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly
available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML, PostScript or PDF designed
for human modification. Examples of transparent image formats include PNG, XCF
and JPG. Opaque formats include proprietary formats that can be read and edited
only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or
processing tools are not generally available, and the machine-generated HTML,
PostScript or PDF produced by some word processors for output purposes only.

The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such
following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License
requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any
title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the most prominent
appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

A section "Entitled XYZ" means a named subunit of the Document whose title
either is precisely XYZ or contains XYZ in parentheses following text that
translates XYZ in another language. (Here XYZ stands for a specific section name
mentioned below, such as "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", "Endorsements", or
"History".) To "Preserve the Title" of such a section when you modify the
Document means that it remains a section "Entitled XYZ" according to this
definition.

The Document may include Warranty Disclaimers next to the notice which states
that this License applies to the Document. These Warranty Disclaimers are
considered to be included by reference in this License, but only as regards
disclaiming warranties: any other implication that these Warranty Disclaimers
may have is void and has no effect on the meaning of this License.

2. VERBATIM COPYING

You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or
noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the
license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all
copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this
License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading
or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept
compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of
copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.

You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may
publicly display copies.

3. COPYING IN QUANTITY

If you publish printed copies (or copies in media that commonly have printed
covers) of the Document, numbering more than 100, and the Document's license
notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in covers that carry,
clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front
cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must also clearly and
legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The front cover must
present the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and
visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition. Copying with
changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title of the
Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying in
other respects.

If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you
should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual
cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.

If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than
100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each
Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a computer-network location
from which the general network-using public has access to download using public-
standard network protocols a complete Transparent copy of the Document, free of
added material. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent
steps, when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that
this Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until
at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or
through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.

It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document
well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to
provide you with an updated version of the Document.

4. MODIFICATIONS

You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the
conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified
Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role
of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified
Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things
in the Modified Version:

     A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct from
that of the Document, and from those of previous versions (which should, if
there were any, be listed in the History section of the Document). You may use
the same title as a previous version if the original publisher of that version
gives permission.
     B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified Version,
together with at least five of the principal authors of the Document (all of its
principal authors, if it has fewer than five), unless they release you from this
requirement.
     C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the Modified
Version, as the publisher.
     D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
     E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications adjacent to
the other copyright notices.
     F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice
giving the public permission to use the Modified Version under the terms of this
License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.
     G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections and
required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.
     H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.
     I. Preserve the section Entitled "History", Preserve its Title, and add to
it an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and publisher of the
Modified Version as given on the Title Page. If there is no section Entitled
"History" in the Document, create one stating the title, year, authors, and
publisher of the Document as given on its Title Page, then add an item
describing the Modified Version as stated in the previous sentence.
     J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for public
access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise the network locations
given in the Document for previous versions it was based on. These may be placed
in the "History" section. You may omit a network location for a work that was
published at least four years before the Document itself, or if the original
publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.
     K. For any section Entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications", Preserve
the Title of the section, and preserve in the section all the substance and tone
of each of the contributor acknowledgements and/or dedications given therein.
     L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered in their
text and in their titles. Section numbers or the equivalent are not considered
part of the section titles.
     M. Delete any section Entitled "Endorsements". Such a section may not be
included in the Modified Version.
     N. Do not retitle any existing section to be Entitled "Endorsements" or to
conflict in title with any Invariant Section.
     O. Preserve any Warranty Disclaimers.

If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that
qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document,
you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To
do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified
Version's license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section
titles.

You may add a section Entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains nothing but
endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties--for example,
statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization
as the authoritative definition of a standard.

You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage
of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in
the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover
Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the
Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by
you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you
may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission
from the previous publisher that added the old one.

The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give
permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply
endorsement of any Modified Version.

5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS

You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License,
under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that
you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the
original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your
combined work in its license notice, and that you preserve all their Warranty
Disclaimers.

The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple
identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are
multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the
title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses,
the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a
unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.

In the combination, you must combine any sections Entitled "History" in the
various original documents, forming one section Entitled "History"; likewise
combine any sections Entitled "Acknowledgements", and any sections Entitled
"Dedications". You must delete all sections Entitled "Endorsements".

6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS

You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License
in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection,
provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each
of the documents in all other respects.

You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it
individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into
the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding
verbatim copying of that document.

7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS

A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and
independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution
medium, is called an "aggregate" if the copyright resulting from the compilation
is not used to limit the legal rights of the compilation's users beyond what the
individual works permit. When the Document is included in an aggregate, this
License does not apply to the other works in the aggregate which are not
themselves derivative works of the Document.

If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the
Document, then if the Document is less than one half of the entire aggregate,
the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that bracket the Document
within the aggregate, or the electronic equivalent of covers if the Document is
in electronic form. Otherwise they must appear on printed covers that bracket
the whole aggregate.

8. TRANSLATION

Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute
translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant
Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright
holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in
addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a
translation of this License, and all the license notices in the Document, and
any Warranty Disclaimers, provided that you also include the original English
version of this License and the original versions of those notices and
disclaimers. In case of a disagreement between the translation and the original
version of this License or a notice or disclaimer, the original version will
prevail.

If a section in the Document is Entitled "Acknowledgements", "Dedications", or
"History", the requirement (section 4) to Preserve its Title (section 1) will
typically require changing the actual title.

9. TERMINATION

You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as
expressly provided for under this License. Any other attempt to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE

The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free
Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns. See http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the
Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License "or any
later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has
been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document
does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version
ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.

ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents

To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the
License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just
after the title page:

 Copyright (c) YEAR YOUR NAME. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or
modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
Version 1.2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with
no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of
the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation
License".

If you have Invariant Sections, Front-Cover Texts and Back-Cover Texts, replace
the "with...Texts." line with this:

 with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the Front-Cover Texts
being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST.

If you have Invariant Sections without Cover Texts, or some other combination of
the three, merge those two alternatives to suit the situation.

If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend
releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license,
such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HP-DEC

This software is furnished under a license and may be used and copied
only in accordance of the terms of such license and with the
inclusion of the above copyright notice. This software or any other
copies thereof may not be provided or otherwise made available to any
other person. No title to and ownership of the software is hereby
transferred.

The information in this software is subject to change without notice
and should not be construed as a commitment by Digital Equipment
Corporation.

Digital assumes no responsibility for the use or reliability of its
software on equipment which is not supplied by Digital.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Algorithmics

Algorithmics gives permission for anyone to use and modify this file
without any obligation or license condition except that you retain
this copyright message in any source redistribution in whole or part.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

U-Michigan

permission is granted to use, copy, create derivative works and
redistribute this software and such derivative works for any purpose,
so long as the name of the university of michigan is not used in
any advertising or publicity pertaining to the use or distribution
of this software without specific, written prior authorization. if
the above copyright notice or any other identification of the
university of michigan is included in any copy of any portion of
this software, then the disclaimer below must also be included.

this software is provided as is, without representation from the
university of michigan as to its fitness for any purpose, and without
warranty by the university of michigan of any kind, either express
or implied, including without limitation the implied warranties of
merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. the regents
of the university of michigan shall not be liable for any damages,
including special, indirect, incidental, or consequential damages,
with respect to any claim arising out or in connection with the use
of the software, even if it has been or is hereafter advised of the
possibility of such damages.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

U-Michigan

Permission is granted to use, copy, create derivative works, and
redistribute this software and such derivative works for any purpose,
so long as the name of the University of Michigan is not used in
any advertising or publicity pertaining to the use or distribution
of this software without specific, written prior authorization. If
the above copyright notice or any other identification of the
University of Michigan is included in any copy of any portion of
this software, then the disclaimer below must also be included.

This software is provided as is, without representation or warranty
of any kind either express or implied, including without limitation
the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, or noninfringement. The Regents of the University of
Michigan shall not be liable for any damages, including special,
indirect, incidental, or consequential damages, with respect to any
claim arising out of or in connection with the use of the software,
even if it has been or is hereafter advised of the possibility of
such damages.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

U-Michigan

Permission is granted to use, copy, create derivative works
and redistribute this software and such derivative works
for any purpose, so long as the name of The University of
Michigan is not used in any advertising or publicity
pertaining to the use of distribution of this software
without specific, written prior authorization. If the
above copyright notice or any other identification of the
University of Michigan is included in any copy of any
portion of this software, then the disclaimer below must
also be included.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED AS IS, WITHOUT REPRESENTATION
FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AS TO ITS FITNESS FOR ANY
PURPOSE, AND WITHOUT WARRANTY BY THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
WITHOUT LIMITATION THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN SHALL NOT BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES, INCLUDING SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, WITH RESPECT TO ANY CLAIM ARISING
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE, EVEN
IF IT HAS BEEN OR IS HEREAFTER ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGES.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GFDL-1.1-no-invariants-or-later
GNU Free Documentation License
Version 1.1, March 2000

Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

0. PREAMBLE
The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other written
document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the effective
freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it, either
commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for the
author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being
considered responsible for modifications made by others.

This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of the
document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU
General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.

We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software,
because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with
manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is
not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless
of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend
this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.

1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS
This License applies to any manual or other work that contains a notice placed
by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the terms of this
License. The "Document", below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of
the public is a licensee, and is addressed as "you".

A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the Document or a
portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated
into another language.

A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the
Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or
authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related
matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall
subject. (For example, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a
Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a
matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of
legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.

The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are
designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that
the Document is released under this License.

The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-
Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is
released under this License.

A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented
in a format whose specification is available to the general public, whose
contents can be viewed and edited directly and straightforwardly with generic
text editors or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for
drawings) some widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input
to text formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable
for input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file
format whose markup has been designed to thwart or discourage subsequent
modification by readers is not Transparent. A copy that is not "Transparent" is
called "Opaque".

Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without
markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly
available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML designed for human
modification. Opaque formats include PostScript, PDF, proprietary formats that
can be read and edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for
which the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally available, and the
machine-generated HTML produced by some word processors for output purposes
only.

The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such
following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License
requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any
title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the most prominent
appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

2. VERBATIM COPYING
You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or
noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the
license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all
copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this
License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading
or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept
compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of
copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.

You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may
publicly display copies.

3. COPYING IN QUANTITY
If you publish printed copies of the Document numbering more than 100, and the
Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in
covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts
on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must
also clearly and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The
front cover must present the full title with all words of the title equally
prominent and visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition.
Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title
of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying
in other respects.

If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you
should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual
cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.

If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than
100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each
Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a publicly-accessible
computer-network location containing a complete Transparent copy of the
Document, free of added material, which the general network-using public has
access to download anonymously at no charge using public-standard network
protocols. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps,
when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this
Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until at
least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or
through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.

It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document
well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to
provide you with an updated version of the Document.

4. MODIFICATIONS
You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the
conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified
Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role
of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified
Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things
in the Modified Version:

A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct from that
of the Document, and from those of previous versions (which should, if there
were any, be listed in the History section of the Document). You may use the
same title as a previous version if the original publisher of that version gives
permission.
B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified Version,
together with at least five of the principal authors of the Document (all of its
principal authors, if it has less than five).
C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the Modified Version, as
the publisher.
D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications adjacent to the
other copyright notices.
F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice giving the
public permission to use the Modified Version under the terms of this License,
in the form shown in the Addendum below.
G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections and
required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.
H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.
I. Preserve the section entitled "History", and its title, and add to it an item
stating at least the title, year, new authors, and publisher of the Modified
Version as given on the Title Page. If there is no section entitled "History" in
the Document, create one stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the
Document as given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified
Version as stated in the previous sentence.
J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for public
access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise the network locations
given in the Document for previous versions it was based on. These may be placed
in the "History" section. You may omit a network location for a work that was
published at least four years before the Document itself, or if the original
publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.
K. In any section entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications", preserve the
section's title, and preserve in the section all the substance and tone of each
of the contributor acknowledgements and/or dedications given therein.
L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered in their text
and in their titles. Section numbers or the equivalent are not considered part
of the section titles.
M. Delete any section entitled "Endorsements". Such a section may not be
included in the Modified Version.
N. Do not retitle any existing section as "Endorsements" or to conflict in title
with any Invariant Section.
If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that
qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document,
you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To
do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified
Version's license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section
titles.

You may add a section entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains nothing but
endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties--for example,
statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization
as the authoritative definition of a standard.

You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage
of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in
the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover
Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the
Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by
you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you
may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission
from the previous publisher that added the old one.

The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give
permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply
endorsement of any Modified Version.

5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS
You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License,
under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that
you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the
original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your
combined work in its license notice.

The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple
identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are
multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the
title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses,
the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a
unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.

In the combination, you must combine any sections entitled "History" in the
various original documents, forming one section entitled "History"; likewise
combine any sections entitled "Acknowledgements", and any sections entitled
"Dedications". You must delete all sections entitled "Endorsements."

6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS
You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License
in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection,
provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each
of the documents in all other respects.

You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it
individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into
the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding
verbatim copying of that document.

7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS
A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and
independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution
medium, does not as a whole count as a Modified Version of the Document,
provided no compilation copyright is claimed for the compilation. Such a
compilation is called an "aggregate", and this License does not apply to the
other self-contained works thus compiled with the Document, on account of their
being thus compiled, if they are not themselves derivative works of the
Document.

If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the
Document, then if the Document is less than one quarter of the entire aggregate,
the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that surround only the
Document within the aggregate. Otherwise they must appear on covers around the
whole aggregate.

8. TRANSLATION
Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute
translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant
Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright
holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in
addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a
translation of this License provided that you also include the original English
version of this License. In case of a disagreement between the translation and
the original English version of this License, the original English version will
prevail.

9. TERMINATION
You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as
expressly provided for under this License. Any other attempt to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE
The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free
Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns. See http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the
Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License "or any
later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has
been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document
does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version
ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.

ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents

To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the
License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just
after the title page:

Copyright (c) YEAR YOUR NAME. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or
modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with
the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the Front-Cover Texts being
LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST. A copy of the license is
included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".

If you have no Invariant Sections, write "with no Invariant Sections" instead of
saying which ones are invariant. If you have no Front-Cover Texts, write "no
Front-Cover Texts" instead of "Front-Cover Texts being LIST"; likewise for Back-
Cover Texts.

If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend
releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license,
such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GFDL-1.1-no-invariants-or-later

GNU Free Documentation License
Version 1.1, March 2000

Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

0. PREAMBLE
The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other written
document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone the effective
freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without modifying it, either
commercially or noncommercially. Secondarily, this License preserves for the
author and publisher a way to get credit for their work, while not being
considered responsible for modifications made by others.

This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative works of the
document must themselves be free in the same sense. It complements the GNU
General Public License, which is a copyleft license designed for free software.

We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free software,
because free software needs free documentation: a free program should come with
manuals providing the same freedoms that the software does. But this License is
not limited to software manuals; it can be used for any textual work, regardless
of subject matter or whether it is published as a printed book. We recommend
this License principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.

1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS
This License applies to any manual or other work that contains a notice placed
by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed under the terms of this
License. The "Document", below, refers to any such manual or work. Any member of
the public is a licensee, and is addressed as "you".

A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the Document or a
portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with modifications and/or translated
into another language.

A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of the
Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the publishers or
authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject (or to related
matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly within that overall
subject. (For example, if the Document is in part a textbook of mathematics, a
Secondary Section may not explain any mathematics.) The relationship could be a
matter of historical connection with the subject or with related matters, or of
legal, commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding them.

The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles are
designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice that says that
the Document is released under this License.

The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed, as Front-
Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that the Document is
released under this License.

A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy, represented
in a format whose specification is available to the general public, whose
contents can be viewed and edited directly and straightforwardly with generic
text editors or (for images composed of pixels) generic paint programs or (for
drawings) some widely available drawing editor, and that is suitable for input
to text formatters or for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable
for input to text formatters. A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file
format whose markup has been designed to thwart or discourage subsequent
modification by readers is not Transparent. A copy that is not "Transparent" is
called "Opaque".

Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain ASCII without
markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML or XML using a publicly
available DTD, and standard-conforming simple HTML designed for human
modification. Opaque formats include PostScript, PDF, proprietary formats that
can be read and edited only by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for
which the DTD and/or processing tools are not generally available, and the
machine-generated HTML produced by some word processors for output purposes
only.

The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself, plus such
following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material this License
requires to appear in the title page. For works in formats which do not have any
title page as such, "Title Page" means the text near the most prominent
appearance of the work's title, preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

2. VERBATIM COPYING
You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either commercially or
noncommercially, provided that this License, the copyright notices, and the
license notice saying this License applies to the Document are reproduced in all
copies, and that you add no other conditions whatsoever to those of this
License. You may not use technical measures to obstruct or control the reading
or further copying of the copies you make or distribute. However, you may accept
compensation in exchange for copies. If you distribute a large enough number of
copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.

You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and you may
publicly display copies.

3. COPYING IN QUANTITY
If you publish printed copies of the Document numbering more than 100, and the
Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose the copies in
covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover Texts: Front-Cover Texts
on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on the back cover. Both covers must
also clearly and legibly identify you as the publisher of these copies. The
front cover must present the full title with all words of the title equally
prominent and visible. You may add other material on the covers in addition.
Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve the title
of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated as verbatim copying
in other respects.

If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit legibly, you
should put the first ones listed (as many as fit reasonably) on the actual
cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent pages.

If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering more than
100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent copy along with each
Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy a publicly-accessible
computer-network location containing a complete Transparent copy of the
Document, free of added material, which the general network-using public has
access to download anonymously at no charge using public-standard network
protocols. If you use the latter option, you must take reasonably prudent steps,
when you begin distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this
Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location until at
least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque copy (directly or
through your agents or retailers) of that edition to the public.

It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the Document
well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give them a chance to
provide you with an updated version of the Document.

4. MODIFICATIONS
You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under the
conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release the Modified
Version under precisely this License, with the Modified Version filling the role
of the Document, thus licensing distribution and modification of the Modified
Version to whoever possesses a copy of it. In addition, you must do these things
in the Modified Version:

A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct from that
of the Document, and from those of previous versions (which should, if there
were any, be listed in the History section of the Document). You may use the
same title as a previous version if the original publisher of that version gives
permission.
B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified Version,
together with at least five of the principal authors of the Document (all of its
principal authors, if it has less than five).
C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the Modified Version, as
the publisher.
D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications adjacent to the
other copyright notices.
F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice giving the
public permission to use the Modified Version under the terms of this License,
in the form shown in the Addendum below.
G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections and
required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.
H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.
I. Preserve the section entitled "History", and its title, and add to it an item
stating at least the title, year, new authors, and publisher of the Modified
Version as given on the Title Page. If there is no section entitled "History" in
the Document, create one stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the
Document as given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified
Version as stated in the previous sentence.
J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for public
access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise the network locations
given in the Document for previous versions it was based on. These may be placed
in the "History" section. You may omit a network location for a work that was
published at least four years before the Document itself, or if the original
publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.
K. In any section entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications", preserve the
section's title, and preserve in the section all the substance and tone of each
of the contributor acknowledgements and/or dedications given therein.
L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document, unaltered in their text
and in their titles. Section numbers or the equivalent are not considered part
of the section titles.
M. Delete any section entitled "Endorsements". Such a section may not be
included in the Modified Version.
N. Do not retitle any existing section as "Endorsements" or to conflict in title
with any Invariant Section.
If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or appendices that
qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material copied from the Document,
you may at your option designate some or all of these sections as invariant. To
do this, add their titles to the list of Invariant Sections in the Modified
Version's license notice. These titles must be distinct from any other section
titles.

You may add a section entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains nothing but
endorsements of your Modified Version by various parties--for example,
statements of peer review or that the text has been approved by an organization
as the authoritative definition of a standard.

You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a passage
of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list of Cover Texts in
the Modified Version. Only one passage of Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover
Text may be added by (or through arrangements made by) any one entity. If the
Document already includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by
you or by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of, you
may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit permission
from the previous publisher that added the old one.

The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License give
permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or imply
endorsement of any Modified Version.

5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS
You may combine the Document with other documents released under this License,
under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified versions, provided that
you include in the combination all of the Invariant Sections of all of the
original documents, unmodified, and list them all as Invariant Sections of your
combined work in its license notice.

The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and multiple
identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single copy. If there are
multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but different contents, make the
title of each such section unique by adding at the end of it, in parentheses,
the name of the original author or publisher of that section if known, or else a
unique number. Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.

In the combination, you must combine any sections entitled "History" in the
various original documents, forming one section entitled "History"; likewise
combine any sections entitled "Acknowledgements", and any sections entitled
"Dedications". You must delete all sections entitled "Endorsements."

6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS
You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this License
in the various documents with a single copy that is included in the collection,
provided that you follow the rules of this License for verbatim copying of each
of the documents in all other respects.

You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute it
individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this License into
the extracted document, and follow this License in all other respects regarding
verbatim copying of that document.

7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS
A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate and
independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or distribution
medium, does not as a whole count as a Modified Version of the Document,
provided no compilation copyright is claimed for the compilation. Such a
compilation is called an "aggregate", and this License does not apply to the
other self-contained works thus compiled with the Document, on account of their
being thus compiled, if they are not themselves derivative works of the
Document.

If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these copies of the
Document, then if the Document is less than one quarter of the entire aggregate,
the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on covers that surround only the
Document within the aggregate. Otherwise they must appear on covers around the
whole aggregate.

8. TRANSLATION
Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may distribute
translations of the Document under the terms of section 4. Replacing Invariant
Sections with translations requires special permission from their copyright
holders, but you may include translations of some or all Invariant Sections in
addition to the original versions of these Invariant Sections. You may include a
translation of this License provided that you also include the original English
version of this License. In case of a disagreement between the translation and
the original English version of this License, the original English version will
prevail.

9. TERMINATION
You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except as
expressly provided for under this License. Any other attempt to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE
The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions of the GNU Free
Documentation License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns. See http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/.

Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number. If the
Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this License "or any
later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that specified version or of any later version that has
been published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation. If the Document
does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any version
ever published (not as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.

ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents

To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of the
License in the document and put the following copyright and license notices just
after the title page:

Copyright (c) YEAR YOUR NAME. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or
modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with
the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the Front-Cover Texts being
LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST. A copy of the license is
included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".

If you have no Invariant Sections, write "with no Invariant Sections" instead of
saying which ones are invariant. If you have no Front-Cover Texts, write "no
Front-Cover Texts" instead of "Front-Cover Texts being LIST"; likewise for Back-
Cover Texts.

If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we recommend
releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of free software license,
such as the GNU General Public License, to permit their use in free software.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GFDL-1.1-or-later
GNU Free Documentation License
                   Version 1.1, March 2000

 Copyright (C) 2000  Free Software Foundation, Inc.
     51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

0. PREAMBLE

The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other
written document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone
the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without
modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially.  Secondarily,
this License preserves for the author and publisher a way to get
credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for
modifications made by others.

This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative
works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense.  It
complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft
license designed for free software.

We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free
software, because free software needs free documentation: a free
program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the
software does.  But this License is not limited to software manuals;
it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or
whether it is published as a printed book.  We recommend this License
principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.

1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS

This License applies to any manual or other work that contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed
under the terms of this License.  The "Document", below, refers to any
such manual or work.  Any member of the public is a licensee, and is
addressed as "you".

A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the
Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with
modifications and/or translated into another language.

A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of
the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the
publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject
(or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly
within that overall subject.  (For example, if the Document is in part a
textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any
mathematics.)  The relationship could be a matter of historical
connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal,
commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding
them.

The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles
are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice
that says that the Document is released under this License.

The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed,
as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that
the Document is released under this License.

A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy,
represented in a format whose specification is available to the
general public, whose contents can be viewed and edited directly and
straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of
pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available
drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or
for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input
to text formatters.  A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file
format whose markup has been designed to thwart or discourage
subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent.  A copy that is
not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".

Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain
ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML
or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple
HTML designed for human modification.  Opaque formats include
PostScript, PDF, proprietary formats that can be read and edited only
by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or
processing tools are not generally available, and the
machine-generated HTML produced by some word processors for output
purposes only.

The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself,
plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material
this License requires to appear in the title page.  For works in
formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means
the text near the most prominent appearance of the work's title,
preceding the beginning of the body of the text.

2. VERBATIM COPYING

You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either
commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the
copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies
to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other
conditions whatsoever to those of this License.  You may not use
technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further
copying of the copies you make or distribute.  However, you may accept
compensation in exchange for copies.  If you distribute a large enough
number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.

You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and
you may publicly display copies.

3. COPYING IN QUANTITY

If you publish printed copies of the Document numbering more than 100,
and the Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose
the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover
Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on
the back cover.  Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify
you as the publisher of these copies.  The front cover must present
the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and
visible.  You may add other material on the covers in addition.
Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve
the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated
as verbatim copying in other respects.

If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit
legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit
reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent
pages.

If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering
more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent
copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy
a publicly-accessible computer-network location containing a complete
Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material, which the
general network-using public has access to download anonymously at no
charge using public-standard network protocols.  If you use the latter
option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you begin
distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this
Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location
until at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque
copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that edition to
the public.

It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the
Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give
them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.

4. MODIFICATIONS

You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under
the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release
the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified
Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution
and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy
of it.  In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:

A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct
   from that of the Document, and from those of previous versions
   (which should, if there were any, be listed in the History section
   of the Document).  You may use the same title as a previous version
   if the original publisher of that version gives permission.
B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities
   responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified
   Version, together with at least five of the principal authors of the
   Document (all of its principal authors, if it has less than five).
C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the
   Modified Version, as the publisher.
D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.
E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications
   adjacent to the other copyright notices.
F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice
   giving the public permission to use the Modified Version under the
   terms of this License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.
G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections
   and required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.
H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.
I. Preserve the section entitled "History", and its title, and add to
   it an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and
   publisher of the Modified Version as given on the Title Page.  If
   there is no section entitled "History" in the Document, create one
   stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the Document as
   given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified
   Version as stated in the previous sentence.
J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for
   public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise
   the network locations given in the Document for previous versions
   it was based on.  These may be placed in the "History" section.
   You may omit a network location for a work that was published at
   least four years before the Document itself, or if the original
   publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.
K. In any section entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications",
   preserve the section's title, and preserve in the section all the
   substance and tone of each of the contributor acknowledgements
   and/or dedications given therein.
L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document,
   unaltered in their text and in their titles.  Section numbers
   or the equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.
M. Delete any section entitled "Endorsements".  Such a section
   may not be included in the Modified Version.
N. Do not retitle any existing section as "Endorsements"
   or to conflict in title with any Invariant Section.

If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or
appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material
copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all
of these sections as invariant.  To do this, add their titles to the
list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license notice.
These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.

You may add a section entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains
nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various
parties--for example, statements of peer review or that the text has
been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a
standard.

You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a
passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list
of Cover Texts in the Modified Version.  Only one passage of
Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or
through arrangements made by) any one entity.  If the Document already
includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or
by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of,
you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit
permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.

The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License
give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or
imply endorsement of any Modified Version.

5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS

You may combine the Document with other documents released under this
License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified
versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the
Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and
list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its
license notice.

The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and
multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single
copy.  If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but
different contents, make the title of each such section unique by
adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original
author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number.
Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of
Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.

In the combination, you must combine any sections entitled "History"
in the various original documents, forming one section entitled
"History"; likewise combine any sections entitled "Acknowledgements",
and any sections entitled "Dedications".  You must delete all sections
entitled "Endorsements."

6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS

You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents
released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this
License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in
the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for
verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.

You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute
it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this
License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all
other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.

7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS

A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate
and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium, does not as a whole count as a Modified Version
of the Document, provided no compilation copyright is claimed for the
compilation.  Such a compilation is called an "aggregate", and this
License does not apply to the other self-contained works thus compiled
with the Document, on account of their being thus compiled, if they
are not themselves derivative works of the Document.

If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these
copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one quarter
of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on
covers that surround only the Document within the aggregate.
Otherwise they must appear on covers around the whole aggregate.

8. TRANSLATION

Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may
distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4.
Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special
permission from their copyright holders, but you may include
translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the
original versions of these Invariant Sections.  You may include a
translation of this License provided that you also include the
original English version of this License.  In case of a disagreement
between the translation and the original English version of this
License, the original English version will prevail.

9. TERMINATION

You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except
as expressly provided for under this License.  Any other attempt to
copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License.  However,
parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this
License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE

The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions
of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time.  Such new
versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.  See
https://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number.
If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this
License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of
following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or
of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the
Free Software Foundation.  If the Document does not specify a version
number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not
as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.

ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents

To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of
the License in the document and put the following copyright and
license notices just after the title page:

      Copyright (c)  YEAR  YOUR NAME.
      Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
      under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1
      or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
      with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the
      Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST.
      A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
      Free Documentation License".

If you have no Invariant Sections, write "with no Invariant Sections"
instead of saying which ones are invariant.  If you have no
Front-Cover Texts, write "no Front-Cover Texts" instead of
"Front-Cover Texts being LIST"; likewise for Back-Cover Texts.

If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we
recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of
free software license, such as the GNU General Public License,
to permit their use in free software.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

copyleft-next-0.3.1

                      copyleft-next 0.3.1 ("this License")
                            Release date: 2016-04-29

1. License Grants; No Trademark License

   Subject to the terms of this License, I grant You:

   a) A non-exclusive, worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license, to reproduce, Distribute, prepare derivative works
      of, publicly perform and publicly display My Work.

   b) A non-exclusive, worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free, irrevocable
      patent license under Licensed Patents to make, have made, use, sell,
      offer for sale, and import Covered Works.

   This License does not grant any rights in My name, trademarks, service
   marks, or logos.

2. Distribution: General Conditions

   You may Distribute Covered Works, provided that You (i) inform
   recipients how they can obtain a copy of this License; (ii) satisfy the
   applicable conditions of sections 3 through 6; and (iii) preserve all
   Legal Notices contained in My Work (to the extent they remain
   pertinent). "Legal Notices" means copyright notices, license notices,
   license texts, and author attributions, but does not include logos,
   other graphical images, trademarks or trademark legends.

3. Conditions for Distributing Derived Works; Outbound GPL Compatibility

   If You Distribute a Derived Work, You must license the entire Derived
   Work as a whole under this License, with prominent notice of such
   licensing. This condition may not be avoided through such means as
   separate Distribution of portions of the Derived Work.

   If the Derived Work includes material licensed under the GPL, You may
   instead license the Derived Work under the GPL.

4. Condition Against Further Restrictions; Inbound License Compatibility

   When Distributing a Covered Work, You may not impose further
   restrictions on the exercise of rights in the Covered Work granted under
   this License. This condition is not excused merely because such
   restrictions result from Your compliance with conditions or obligations
   extrinsic to this License (such as a court order or an agreement with a
   third party).

   However, You may Distribute a Covered Work incorporating material
   governed by a license that is both OSI-Approved and FSF-Free as of the
   release date of this License, provided that compliance with such
   other license would not conflict with any conditions stated in other
   sections of this License.

5. Conditions for Distributing Object Code

   You may Distribute an Object Code form of a Covered Work, provided that
   you accompany the Object Code with a URL through which the Corresponding
   Source is made available, at no charge, by some standard or customary
   means of providing network access to source code.

   If you Distribute the Object Code in a physical product or tangible
   storage medium ("Product"), the Corresponding Source must be available
   through such URL for two years from the date of Your most recent
   Distribution of the Object Code in the Product. However, if the Product
   itself contains or is accompanied by the Corresponding Source (made
   available in a customarily accessible manner), You need not also comply
   with the first paragraph of this section.

   Each direct and indirect recipient of the Covered Work from You is an
   intended third-party beneficiary of this License solely as to this
   section 5, with the right to enforce its terms.

6. Symmetrical Licensing Condition for Upstream Contributions

   If You Distribute a work to Me specifically for inclusion in or
   modification of a Covered Work (a "Patch"), and no explicit licensing
   terms apply to the Patch, You license the Patch under this License, to
   the extent of Your copyright in the Patch. This condition does not
   negate the other conditions of this License, if applicable to the Patch.

7. Nullification of Copyleft/Proprietary Dual Licensing

   If I offer to license, for a fee, a Covered Work under terms other than
   a license that is OSI-Approved or FSF-Free as of the release date of this
   License or a numbered version of copyleft-next released by the
   Copyleft-Next Project, then the license I grant You under section 1 is no
   longer subject to the conditions in sections 3 through 5.

8. Copyleft Sunset

   The conditions in sections 3 through 5 no longer apply once fifteen
   years have elapsed from the date of My first Distribution of My Work
   under this License.

9. Pass-Through

   When You Distribute a Covered Work, the recipient automatically receives
   a license to My Work from Me, subject to the terms of this License.

10. Termination

    Your license grants under section 1 are automatically terminated if You

    a) fail to comply with the conditions of this License, unless You cure
       such noncompliance within thirty days after becoming aware of it, or

    b) initiate a patent infringement litigation claim (excluding
       declaratory judgment actions, counterclaims, and cross-claims)
       alleging that any part of My Work directly or indirectly infringes
       any patent.

    Termination of Your license grants extends to all copies of Covered
    Works You subsequently obtain. Termination does not terminate the
    rights of those who have received copies or rights from You subject to
    this License.

    To the extent permission to make copies of a Covered Work is necessary
    merely for running it, such permission is not terminable.

11. Later License Versions

    The Copyleft-Next Project may release new versions of copyleft-next,
    designated by a distinguishing version number ("Later Versions").
    Unless I explicitly remove the option of Distributing Covered Works
    under Later Versions, You may Distribute Covered Works under any Later
    Version.

** 12. No Warranty                                                       **
**                                                                       **
**     My Work is provided "as-is", without warranty. You bear the risk  **
**     of using it. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each      **
**     Distributor of My Work excludes the implied warranties of title,  **
**     merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and             **
**     non-infringement.                                                 **

** 13. Limitation of Liability                                           **
**                                                                       **
**     To the extent permitted by applicable law, in no event will any   **
**     Distributor of My Work be liable to You for any damages           **
**     whatsoever, whether direct, indirect, special, incidental, or     **
**     consequential damages, whether arising under contract, tort       **
**     (including negligence), or otherwise, even where the Distributor  **
**     knew or should have known about the possibility of such damages.  **

14. Severability

    The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this License
    does not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of
    this License. Such provision is to be reformed to the minimum extent
    necessary to make it valid and enforceable.

15. Definitions

    "Copyleft-Next Project" means the project that maintains the source
    code repository at <https://github.com/copyleft-next/copyleft-next.git/>
    as of the release date of this License.

    "Corresponding Source" of a Covered Work in Object Code form means (i)
    the Source Code form of the Covered Work; (ii) all scripts,
    instructions and similar information that are reasonably necessary for
    a skilled developer to generate such Object Code from the Source Code
    provided under (i); and (iii) a list clearly identifying all Separate
    Works (other than those provided in compliance with (ii)) that were
    specifically used in building and (if applicable) installing the
    Covered Work (for example, a specified proprietary compiler including
    its version number). Corresponding Source must be machine-readable.

    "Covered Work" means My Work or a Derived Work.

    "Derived Work" means a work of authorship that copies from, modifies,
    adapts, is based on, is a derivative work of, transforms, translates or
    contains all or part of My Work, such that copyright permission is
    required. The following are not Derived Works: (i) Mere Aggregation;
    (ii) a mere reproduction of My Work; and (iii) if My Work fails to
    explicitly state an expectation otherwise, a work that merely makes
    reference to My Work.

    "Distribute" means to distribute, transfer or make a copy available to
    someone else, such that copyright permission is required.

    "Distributor" means Me and anyone else who Distributes a Covered Work.

    "FSF-Free" means classified as 'free' by the Free Software Foundation.

    "GPL" means a version of the GNU General Public License or the GNU
    Affero General Public License.

    "I"/"Me"/"My" refers to the individual or legal entity that places My
    Work under this License. "You"/"Your" refers to the individual or legal
    entity exercising rights in My Work under this License. A legal entity
    includes each entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under
    common control with such legal entity. "Control" means (a) the power to
    direct the actions of such legal entity, whether by contract or
    otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent of the
    outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such legal entity.

    "Licensed Patents" means all patent claims licensable royalty-free by
    Me, now or in the future, that are necessarily infringed by making,
    using, or selling My Work, and excludes claims that would be infringed
    only as a consequence of further modification of My Work.

    "Mere Aggregation" means an aggregation of a Covered Work with a
    Separate Work.

    "My Work" means the particular work of authorship I license to You
    under this License.

    "Object Code" means any form of a work that is not Source Code.

    "OSI-Approved" means approved as 'Open Source' by the Open Source
    Initiative.

    "Separate Work" means a work that is separate from and independent of a
    particular Covered Work and is not by its nature an extension or
    enhancement of the Covered Work, and/or a runtime library, standard
    library or similar component that is used to generate an Object Code
    form of a Covered Work.

    "Source Code" means the preferred form of a work for making
    modifications to it.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Linux-OpenIB

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Linux-OpenIB

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.

* Neither the name of the Intel Corporation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.


THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY INTEL CORPORATION ""AS IS"" AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL INTEL CORPORATION OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Linux-OpenIB

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
without modification, are permitted provided that the following
conditions are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
provided with the distribution.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Linux-OpenIB

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
without modification, are permitted provided that the following
conditions are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer in the documentation and /or other materials
provided with the distribution.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HPND-sell-variant

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software
and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and
that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the name of OpenVision not be used
in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software
without specific, written prior permission. OpenVision makes no
representations about the suitability of this software for any
purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.

OPENVISION DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
EVENT SHALL OPENVISION BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF
USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FSFUL

This file is free documentation; the Free Software Foundation gives
unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify it.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Artistic-1.0-Perl

The "Artistic License"

Preamble

The intent of this document is to state the conditions under which a Package may
be copied, such that the Copyright Holder maintains some semblance of artistic
control over the development of the package, while giving the users of the
package the right to use and distribute the Package in a more-or-less customary
fashion, plus the right to make reasonable modifications.

Definitions:

     "Package" refers to the collection of files distributed by the Copyright
Holder, and derivatives of that collection of files created through textual
modification.

     "Standard Version" refers to such a Package if it has not been modified, or
has been modified in accordance with the wishes of the Copyright Holder as
specified below.

     "Copyright Holder" is whoever is named in the copyright or copyrights for
the package.

     "You" is you, if you're thinking about copying or distributing this
Package.

     "Reasonable copying fee" is whatever you can justify on the basis of media
cost, duplication charges, time of people involved, and so on.  (You will not be
required to justify it to the Copyright Holder, but only to the computing
community at large as a market that must bear the fee.)

     "Freely Available" means that no fee is charged for the item itself, though
there may be fees involved in handling the item. It also means that recipients
of the item may redistribute it under the same conditions they received it.

1. You may make and give away verbatim copies of the source form of the Standard
Version of this Package without restriction, provided that you duplicate all of
the original copyright notices and associated disclaimers.

2. You may apply bug fixes, portability fixes and other modifications derived
from the Public Domain or from the Copyright Holder.  A Package modified in such
a way shall still be considered the Standard Version.

3. You may otherwise modify your copy of this Package in any way, provided that
you insert a prominent notice in each changed file stating how and when you
changed that file, and provided that you do at least ONE of the following:

     a) place your modifications in the Public Domain or otherwise make them
Freely Available, such as by posting said modifications to Usenet or an
equivalent medium, or placing the modifications on a major archive site such as
uunet.uu.net, or by allowing the Copyright Holder to include your modifications
in the Standard Version of the Package.
     b) use the modified Package only within your corporation or organization.
     c) rename any non-standard executables so the names do not conflict with
standard executables, which must also be provided, and provide a separate manual
page for each non-standard executable that clearly documents how it differs from
the Standard Version.
     d) make other distribution arrangements with the Copyright Holder.

4. You may distribute the programs of this Package in object code or executable
form, provided that you do at least ONE of the following:

     a) distribute a Standard Version of the executables and library files,
together with instructions (in the manual page or equivalent) on where to get
the Standard Version.
     b) accompany the distribution with the machine-readable source of the
Package with your modifications.
     c) give non-standard executables non-standard names, and clearly document
the differences in manual pages (or equivalent), together with instructions on
where to get the Standard Version.
     d) make other distribution arrangements with the Copyright Holder.

5. You may charge a reasonable copying fee for any distribution of this Package.
You may charge any fee you choose for support of this Package.  You may not
charge a fee for this Package itself.  However, you may distribute this Package
in aggregate with other (possibly commercial) programs as part of a larger
(possibly commercial) software distribution provided that you do not advertise
this Package as a product of your own.  You may embed this Package's interpreter
within an executable of yours (by linking); this shall be construed as a mere
form of aggregation, provided that the complete Standard Version of the
interpreter is so embedded.

6. The scripts and library files supplied as input to or produced as output from
the programs of this Package do not automatically fall under the copyright of
this Package, but belong to whoever generated them, and may be sold
commercially, and may be aggregated with this Package.  If such scripts or
library files are aggregated with this Package via the so-called "undump" or
"unexec" methods of producing a binary executable image, then distribution of
such an image shall neither be construed as a distribution of this Package nor
shall it fall under the restrictions of Paragraphs 3 and 4, provided that you do
not represent such an executable image as a Standard Version of this Package.

7. C subroutines (or comparably compiled subroutines in other languages)
supplied by you and linked into this Package in order to emulate subroutines and
variables of the language defined by this Package shall not be considered part
of this Package, but are the equivalent of input as in Paragraph 6, provided
these subroutines do not change the language in any way that would cause it to
fail the regression tests for the language.

8. Aggregation of this Package with a commercial distribution is always
permitted provided that the use of this Package is embedded; that is, when no
overt attempt is made to make this Package's interfaces visible to the end user
of the commercial distribution.  Such use shall not be construed as a
distribution of this Package.

9. The name of the Copyright Holder may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

10. THIS PACKAGE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

The End


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC-BY-SA-4.0

Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International

 Creative Commons Corporation ("Creative Commons") is not a law firm and does
not provide legal services or legal advice. Distribution of Creative Commons
public licenses does not create a lawyer-client or other relationship. Creative
Commons makes its licenses and related information available on an "as-is"
basis. Creative Commons gives no warranties regarding its licenses, any material
licensed under their terms and conditions, or any related information. Creative
Commons disclaims all liability for damages resulting from their use to the
fullest extent possible.

Using Creative Commons Public Licenses

Creative Commons public licenses provide a standard set of terms and conditions
that creators and other rights holders may use to share original works of
authorship and other material subject to copyright and certain other rights
specified in the public license below. The following considerations are for
informational purposes only, are not exhaustive, and do not form part of our
licenses.

Considerations for licensors: Our public licenses are intended for use by those
authorized to give the public permission to use material in ways otherwise
restricted by copyright and certain other rights. Our licenses are irrevocable.
Licensors should read and understand the terms and conditions of the license
they choose before applying it. Licensors should also secure all rights
necessary before applying our licenses so that the public can reuse the material
as expected. Licensors should clearly mark any material not subject to the
license. This includes other CC-licensed material, or material used under an
exception or limitation to copyright. More considerations for licensors.

Considerations for the public: By using one of our public licenses, a licensor
grants the public permission to use the licensed material under specified terms
and conditions. If the licensor's permission is not necessary for any reason-for
example, because of any applicable exception or limitation to copyright-then
that use is not regulated by the license. Our licenses grant only permissions
under copyright and certain other rights that a licensor has authority to grant.
Use of the licensed material may still be restricted for other reasons,
including because others have copyright or other rights in the material. A
licensor may make special requests, such as asking that all changes be marked or
described.

Although not required by our licenses, you are encouraged to respect those
requests where reasonable. More considerations for the public.

Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License

By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree to be
bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons Attribution-
ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License ("Public License"). To the extent
this Public License may be interpreted as a contract, You are granted the
Licensed Rights in consideration of Your acceptance of these terms and
conditions, and the Licensor grants You such rights in consideration of benefits
the Licensor receives from making the Licensed Material available under these
terms and conditions.

Section 1 - Definitions.

     a. Adapted Material means material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights
that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material and in which the
Licensed Material is translated, altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise
modified in a manner requiring permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights
held by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the Licensed
Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording, Adapted Material is
always produced where the Licensed Material is synched in timed relation with a
moving image.

     b. Adapter's License means the license You apply to Your Copyright and
Similar Rights in Your contributions to Adapted Material in accordance with the
terms and conditions of this Public License.

     c. BY-SA Compatible License means a license listed at
creativecommons.org/compatiblelicenses, approved by Creative Commons as
essentially the equivalent of this Public License.

     d. Copyright and Similar Rights means copyright and/or similar rights
closely related to copyright including, without limitation, performance,
broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database Rights, without regard to
how the rights are labeled or categorized. For purposes of this Public License,
the rights specified in Section 2(b)(1)-(2) are not Copyright and Similar
Rights.

     e. Effective Technological Measures means those measures that, in the
absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws fulfilling
obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on December
20, 1996, and/or similar international agreements.

     f. Exceptions and Limitations means fair use, fair dealing, and/or any
other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights that applies to
Your use of the Licensed Material.

     g. License Elements means the license attributes listed in the name of a
Creative Commons Public License. The License Elements of this Public License are
Attribution and ShareAlike.

     h. Licensed Material means the artistic or literary work, database, or
other material to which the Licensor applied this Public License.

     i. Licensed Rights means the rights granted to You subject to the terms and
conditions of this Public License, which are limited to all Copyright and
Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material and that the
Licensor has authority to license.

     j. Licensor means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights under
this Public License.

     k. Share means to provide material to the public by any means or process
that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such as reproduction, public
display, public performance, distribution, dissemination, communication, or
importation, and to make material available to the public including in ways that
members of the public may access the material from a place and at a time
individually chosen by them.

     l. Sui Generis Database Rights means rights other than copyright resulting
from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March
1996 on the legal protection of databases, as amended and/or succeeded, as well
as other essentially equivalent rights anywhere in the world.

     m. You means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights under
this Public License. Your has a corresponding meaning.

Section 2 - Scope.

     a.	License grant.

          1. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the
Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable, non-
exclusive, irrevocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed
Material to:

               A. reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in
part; and

               B. produce, reproduce, and Share Adapted Material.

          2. Exceptions and Limitations. For the avoidance of doubt, where
Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public License does not
apply, and You do not need to comply with its terms and conditions.

          3. Term. The term of this Public License is specified in Section 6(a).

          4. Media and formats; technical modifications allowed. The Licensor
authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in all media and formats whether
now known or hereafter created, and to make technical modifications necessary to
do so. The Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any right or authority to
forbid You from making technical modifications necessary to exercise the
Licensed Rights, including technical modifications necessary to circumvent
Effective Technological Measures. For purposes of this Public License, simply
making modifications authorized by this Section 2(a)(4) never produces Adapted
Material.

          5. Downstream recipients.

               A. Offer from the Licensor - Licensed Material. Every recipient
of the Licensed Material automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to
exercise the Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this Public
License.

               B. Additional offer from the Licensor - Adapted Material. Every
recipient of Adapted Material from You automatically receives an offer from the
Licensor to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Adapted Material under the
conditions of the Adapter's License You apply.

               C. No downstream restrictions. You may not offer or impose any
additional or different terms or conditions on, or apply any Effective
Technological Measures to, the Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise
of the Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed Material.

          6. No endorsement. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may
be construed as permission to assert or imply that You are, or that Your use of
the Licensed Material is, connected with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted
official status by, the Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as
provided in Section 3(a)(1)(A)(i).

     b.	Other rights.

          1. Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not licensed
under this Public License, nor are publicity, privacy, and/or other similar
personality rights; however, to the extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or
agrees not to assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the limited extent
necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed Rights, but not otherwise.

          2. Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this Public
License.

          3. To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to collect
royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed Rights, whether directly or
through a collecting society under any voluntary or waivable statutory or
compulsory licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly reserves
any right to collect such royalties.

Section 3 - License Conditions.

Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the following
conditions.

     a.	Attribution.

          1. If You Share the Licensed Material (including in modified form),
You must:

               A. retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with
the Licensed Material:

                    i.  identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed
Material and any others designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable
manner requested by the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated);

                    ii.	a copyright notice;

                    iii. a notice that refers to this Public License;

                    iv.	a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;

                    v.  a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the
extent reasonably practicable;

               B. indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and retain an
indication of any previous modifications; and

               C. indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this Public
License, and include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public
License.

          2. You may satisfy the conditions in Section 3(a)(1) in any reasonable
manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share the Licensed
Material. For example, it may be reasonable to satisfy the conditions by
providing a URI or hyperlink to a resource that includes the required
information.

          3. If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the
information required by Section 3(a)(1)(A) to the extent reasonably practicable.

     b. ShareAlike.In addition to the conditions in Section 3(a), if You Share
Adapted Material You produce, the following conditions also apply.

          1. The Adapter's License You apply must be a Creative Commons license
with the same License Elements, this version or later, or a BY-SA Compatible
License.

          2. You must include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, the
Adapter's License You apply. You may satisfy this condition in any reasonable
manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share Adapted
Material.

          3. You may not offer or impose any additional or different terms or
conditions on, or apply any Effective Technological Measures to, Adapted
Material that restrict exercise of the rights granted under the Adapter's
License You apply.

Section 4 - Sui Generis Database Rights.

Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that apply to Your
use of the Licensed Material:

     a. for the avoidance of doubt, Section 2(a)(1) grants You the right to
extract, reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial portion of the
contents of the database;

     b. if You include all or a substantial portion of the database contents in
a database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights, then the database in
which You have Sui Generis Database Rights (but not its individual contents) is
Adapted Material, including for purposes of Section 3(b); and

     c. You must comply with the conditions in Section 3(a) if You Share all or
a substantial portion of the contents of the database.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 4 supplements and does not replace Your
obligations under this Public License where the Licensed Rights include other
Copyright and Similar Rights.

Section 5 - Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

     a. Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent
possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and
makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed
Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without
limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the
presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where
disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer
may not apply to You.

     b. To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You
on any legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for
any direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary,
or other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License
or use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the
possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of
liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to
You.

     c. The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above
shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely
approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.

Section 6 - Term and Termination.

     a. This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and Similar
Rights licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with this Public License,
then Your rights under this Public License terminate automatically.

     b. Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under
Section 6(a), it reinstates:

          1. automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided it is
cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the violation; or

          2. upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.

     c. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 6(b) does not affect any right
the Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations of this Public
License.

     d. For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the Licensed
Material under separate terms or conditions or stop distributing the Licensed
Material at any time; however, doing so will not terminate this Public License.

     e.	Sections 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8 survive termination of this Public License.

Section 7 - Other Terms and Conditions.

     a. The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different terms or
conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.

     b. Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the Licensed
Material not stated herein are separate from and independent of the terms and
conditions of this Public License.

Section 8 - Interpretation.

     a. For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and shall not
be interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose conditions on any use of
the Licensed Material that could lawfully be made without permission under this
Public License.

     b. To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is
deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the minimum extent
necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision cannot be reformed, it shall
be severed from this Public License without affecting the enforceability of the
remaining terms and conditions.

     c. No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no
failure to comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the Licensor.

     d. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted as a
limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities that apply to the
Licensor or You, including from the legal processes of any jurisdiction or
authority.

Creative Commons is not a party to its public licenses. Notwithstanding,
Creative Commons may elect to apply one of its public licenses to material it
publishes and in those instances will be considered the "Licensor." Except for
the limited purpose of indicating that material is shared under a Creative
Commons public license or as otherwise permitted by the Creative Commons
policies published at creativecommons.org/policies, Creative Commons does not
authorize the use of the trademark "Creative Commons" or any other trademark or
logo of Creative Commons without its prior written consent including, without
limitation, in connection with any unauthorized modifications to any of its
public licenses or any other arrangements, understandings, or agreements
concerning use of licensed material. For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph
does not form part of the public licenses.

Creative Commons may be contacted at creativecommons.org.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC-BY-4.0

Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International

 Creative Commons Corporation ("Creative Commons") is not a law firm and does
not provide legal services or legal advice. Distribution of Creative Commons
public licenses does not create a lawyer-client or other relationship. Creative
Commons makes its licenses and related information available on an "as-is"
basis. Creative Commons gives no warranties regarding its licenses, any material
licensed under their terms and conditions, or any related information. Creative
Commons disclaims all liability for damages resulting from their use to the
fullest extent possible.

Using Creative Commons Public Licenses

Creative Commons public licenses provide a standard set of terms and conditions
that creators and other rights holders may use to share original works of
authorship and other material subject to copyright and certain other rights
specified in the public license below. The following considerations are for
informational purposes only, are not exhaustive, and do not form part of our
licenses.

Considerations for licensors: Our public licenses are intended for use by those
authorized to give the public permission to use material in ways otherwise
restricted by copyright and certain other rights. Our licenses are irrevocable.
Licensors should read and understand the terms and conditions of the license
they choose before applying it. Licensors should also secure all rights
necessary before applying our licenses so that the public can reuse the material
as expected. Licensors should clearly mark any material not subject to the
license. This includes other CC-licensed material, or material used under an
exception or limitation to copyright. More considerations for licensors.

Considerations for the public: By using one of our public licenses, a licensor
grants the public permission to use the licensed material under specified terms
and conditions. If the licensor's permission is not necessary for any reason-for
example, because of any applicable exception or limitation to copyright-then
that use is not regulated by the license. Our licenses grant only permissions
under copyright and certain other rights that a licensor has authority to grant.
Use of the licensed material may still be restricted for other reasons,
including because others have copyright or other rights in the material. A
licensor may make special requests, such as asking that all changes be marked or
described. Although not required by our licenses, you are encouraged to respect
those requests where reasonable. More considerations for the public.

Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Public License

By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree to be
bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International Public License ("Public License"). To the extent this Public
License may be interpreted as a contract, You are granted the Licensed Rights in
consideration of Your acceptance of these terms and conditions, and the Licensor
grants You such rights in consideration of benefits the Licensor receives from
making the Licensed Material available under these terms and conditions.

Section 1 - Definitions.

     a. Adapted Material means material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights
that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material and in which the
Licensed Material is translated, altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise
modified in a manner requiring permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights
held by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the Licensed
Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording, Adapted Material is
always produced where the Licensed Material is synched in timed relation with a
moving image.

     b. Adapter's License means the license You apply to Your Copyright and
Similar Rights in Your contributions to Adapted Material in accordance with the
terms and conditions of this Public License.

     c. Copyright and Similar Rights means copyright and/or similar rights
closely related to copyright including, without limitation, performance,
broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database Rights, without regard to
how the rights are labeled or categorized. For purposes of this Public License,
the rights specified in Section 2(b)(1)-(2) are not Copyright and Similar
Rights.

     d. Effective Technological Measures means those measures that, in the
absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws fulfilling
obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on December
20, 1996, and/or similar international agreements.

     e. Exceptions and Limitations means fair use, fair dealing, and/or any
other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights that applies to
Your use of the Licensed Material.

     f. Licensed Material means the artistic or literary work, database, or
other material to which the Licensor applied this Public License.

     g. Licensed Rights means the rights granted to You subject to the terms and
conditions of this Public License, which are limited to all Copyright and
Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material and that the
Licensor has authority to license.

     h. Licensor means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights under
this Public License.

     i. Share means to provide material to the public by any means or process
that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such as reproduction, public
display, public performance, distribution, dissemination, communication, or
importation, and to make material available to the public including in ways that
members of the public may access the material from a place and at a time
individually chosen by them.

     j. Sui Generis Database Rights means rights other than copyright resulting
from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March
1996 on the legal protection of databases, as amended and/or succeeded, as well
as other essentially equivalent rights anywhere in the world.

     k. You means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights under
this Public License. Your has a corresponding meaning.

Section 2 - Scope.

     a.	License grant.

          1. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the
Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable, non-
exclusive, irrevocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed
Material to:

               A. reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in
part; and

               B. produce, reproduce, and Share Adapted Material.

          2. Exceptions and Limitations. For the avoidance of doubt, where
Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public License does not
apply, and You do not need to comply with its terms and conditions.

          3. Term. The term of this Public License is specified in Section 6(a).

          4. Media and formats; technical modifications allowed. The Licensor
authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in all media and formats whether
now known or hereafter created, and to make technical modifications necessary to
do so. The Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any right or authority to
forbid You from making technical modifications necessary to exercise the
Licensed Rights, including technical modifications necessary to circumvent
Effective Technological Measures. For purposes of this Public License, simply
making modifications authorized by this Section 2(a)(4) never produces Adapted
Material.

          5. Downstream recipients.

               A. Offer from the Licensor - Licensed Material. Every recipient
of the Licensed Material automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to
exercise the Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this Public
License.

               B. No downstream restrictions. You may not offer or impose any
additional or different terms or conditions on, or apply any Effective
Technological Measures to, the Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise
of the Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed Material.

          6.  No endorsement. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may
be construed as permission to assert or imply that You are, or that Your use of
the Licensed Material is, connected with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted
official status by, the Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as
provided in Section 3(a)(1)(A)(i).

b. Other rights.

          1. Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not licensed
under this Public License, nor are publicity, privacy, and/or other similar
personality rights; however, to the extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or
agrees not to assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the limited extent
necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed Rights, but not otherwise.

          2. Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this Public
License.

          3. To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to collect
royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed Rights, whether directly or
through a collecting society under any voluntary or waivable statutory or
compulsory licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly reserves
any right to collect such royalties.

Section 3 - License Conditions.

Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the following
conditions.

     a.	Attribution.

          1. If You Share the Licensed Material (including in modified form),
You must:

               A. retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with
the Licensed Material:

                    i. identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed Material
and any others designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable manner
requested by the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated);

                    ii. a copyright notice;

                    iii. a notice that refers to this Public License;

                    iv.	a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;

                    v. a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the extent
reasonably practicable;

               B. indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and retain an
indication of any previous modifications; and

               C. indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this Public
License, and include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public
License.

          2. You may satisfy the conditions in Section 3(a)(1) in any reasonable
manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share the Licensed
Material. For example, it may be reasonable to satisfy the conditions by
providing a URI or hyperlink to a resource that includes the required
information.

          3. If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the
information required by Section 3(a)(1)(A) to the extent reasonably practicable.

          4. If You Share Adapted Material You produce, the Adapter's License
You apply must not prevent recipients of the Adapted Material from complying
with this Public License.

Section 4 - Sui Generis Database Rights.

Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that apply to Your
use of the Licensed Material:

     a. for the avoidance of doubt, Section 2(a)(1) grants You the right to
extract, reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial portion of the
contents of the database;

     b. if You include all or a substantial portion of the database contents in
a database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights, then the database in
which You have Sui Generis Database Rights (but not its individual contents) is
Adapted Material; and

     c. You must comply with the conditions in Section 3(a) if You Share all or
a substantial portion of the contents of the database.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 4 supplements and does not replace Your
obligations under this Public License where the Licensed Rights include other
Copyright and Similar Rights.

Section 5 - Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

     a. Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent
possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and
makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed
Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without
limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the
presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where
disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer
may not apply to You.

     b. To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You
on any legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for
any direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary,
or other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License
or use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the
possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of
liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to
You.

     c. The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above
shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely
approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.

Section 6 - Term and Termination.

     a. This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and Similar
Rights licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with this Public License,
then Your rights under this Public License terminate automatically.

     b. Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under
Section 6(a), it reinstates:

          1. automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided it is
cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the violation; or

          2. upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.

     c. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 6(b) does not affect any right
the Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations of this Public
License.

     d. For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the Licensed
Material under separate terms or conditions or stop distributing the Licensed
Material at any time; however, doing so will not terminate this Public License.

     e.	Sections 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8 survive termination of this Public License.

Section 7 - Other Terms and Conditions.

     a. The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different terms or
conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.

     b. Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the Licensed
Material not stated herein are separate from and independent of the terms and
conditions of this Public License.

Section 8 - Interpretation.

     a. For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and shall not
be interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose conditions on any use of
the Licensed Material that could lawfully be made without permission under this
Public License.

     b. To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is
deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the minimum extent
necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision cannot be reformed, it shall
be severed from this Public License without affecting the enforceability of the
remaining terms and conditions.

     c. No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no
failure to comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the Licensor.

     d. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted as a
limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities that apply to the
Licensor or You, including from the legal processes of any jurisdiction or
authority.

Creative Commons is not a party to its public licenses. Notwithstanding,
Creative Commons may elect to apply one of its public licenses to material it
publishes and in those instances will be considered the "Licensor." Except for
the limited purpose of indicating that material is shared under a Creative
Commons public license or as otherwise permitted by the Creative Commons
policies published at creativecommons.org/policies, Creative Commons does not
authorize the use of the trademark "Creative Commons" or any other trademark or
logo of Creative Commons without its prior written consent including, without
limitation, in connection with any unauthorized modifications to any of its
public licenses or any other arrangements, understandings, or agreements
concerning use of licensed material. For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph
does not form part of the public licenses.

Creative Commons may be contacted at creativecommons.org.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unlicense

This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.

Anyone is free to copy, modify, publish, use, compile, sell, or
distribute this software, either in source code form or as a compiled
binary, for any purpose, commercial or non-commercial, and by any
means.

In jurisdictions that recognize copyright laws, the author or authors
of this software dedicate any and all copyright interest in the
software to the public domain. We make this dedication for the benefit
of the public at large and to the detriment of our heirs and
successors. We intend this dedication to be an overt act of
relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights to this
software under copyright law.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

For more information, please refer to <https://unlicense.org/>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Unlicense

This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.

Anyone is free to copy, modify, publish, use, compile, sell, or
distribute this software, either in source code form or as a compiled
binary, for any purpose, commercial or non-commercial, and by any
means.

In jurisdictions that recognize copyright laws, the author or authors
of this software dedicate any and all copyright interest in the
software to the public domain. We make this dedication for the benefit
of the public at large and to the detriment of our heirs and
successors. We intend this dedication to be an overt act of
relinquishment in perpetuity of all present and future rights to this
software under copyright law.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

For more information, please refer to <http://unlicense.org/>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Public-domain

This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Public-domain

Public domain

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT-style

The Synopsys DWC ETHER XGMAC Software Driver and documentation
(hereinafter "Software") is an unsupported proprietary work of Synopsys,
Inc. unless otherwise expressly agreed to in writing between Synopsys
and you.

The Software IS NOT an item of Licensed Software or Licensed Product
under any End User Software License Agreement or Agreement for Licensed
Product with Synopsys or any supplement thereto. Permission is hereby
granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software
annotated with this license and the Software, to deal in the Software
without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished
to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THIS SOFTWARE IS BEING DISTRIBUTED BY SYNOPSYS SOLELY ON AN "AS IS"
BASIS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL SYNOPSYS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT-style

The Synopsys DWC ETHER XGMAC Software Driver and documentation
(hereinafter "Software") is an unsupported proprietary work of Synopsys,
Inc. unless otherwise expressly agreed to in writing between Synopsys
and you.

The Software IS NOT   an item of Licensed Software or Licensed Product
under any End User Software License Agreement or Agreement for Licensed
Product with Synopsys or any supplement thereto. Permission is hereby
granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software
annotated with this license and the Software, to deal in the Software
without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished
to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THIS SOFTWARE IS BEING DISTRIBUTED BY SYNOPSYS SOLELY ON AN "AS IS"
BASIS AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL SYNOPSYS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-style

The free distribution and use of this software in both source and binary
form is allowed (with or without changes) provided that:

1. distributions of this source code include the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer;

2. distributions in binary form include the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
in the documentation and/or other associated materials;

3. the copyright holder's name is not used to endorse products
built using this software without specific written permission.

DISCLAIMER

This software is provided 'as is' with no explicit or implied warranties
in respect of its properties, including, but not limited to, correctness
and/or fitness for purpose.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-style

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain this licence text
without modification, this list of conditions, and the following
disclaimer. The following copyright notice must appear immediately at
the beginning of all source files:

Copyright (c) 1998-2003 InnoSys Incorporated. All Rights Reserved

This file is available under a BSD-style copyright

2. The name of InnoSys Incorporated may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior written
permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY INNOSYS CORP. ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN
NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-style

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain this licence text
without modification, this list of conditions, and the following
disclaimer. The following copyright notice must appear immediately at
the beginning of all source files:

Copyright (C) 1998-2000 InnoSys Incorporated. All Rights Reserved

This file is available under a BSD-style copyright

2. The name of InnoSys Incorporated may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior written
permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY INNOSYS CORP. ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN
NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-style

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain this LICENSE.FlashPoint
file, without modification, this list of conditions, and the following
disclaimer. The following copyright notice must appear immediately at
the beginning of all source files:

Copyright 1995-1996 by Mylex Corporation. All Rights Reserved

This file is available under both the GNU General Public License
and a BSD-style copyright; see LICENSE.FlashPoint for details.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. The name of Mylex Corporation may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior written
permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY MYLEX CORP. ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN
NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-style

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer,
without modification.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce at minimum a disclaimer
substantially similar to the "NO WARRANTY" disclaimer below
("Disclaimer") and any redistribution must be conditioned upon
including a substantially similar Disclaimer requirement for further
binary redistribution.
3. Neither the names of the above-listed copyright holders nor the names
of any contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

NO WARRANTY
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-style

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer,
without modification.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce at minimum a disclaimer
similar to the "NO WARRANTY" disclaimer below ("Disclaimer") and any
redistribution must be conditioned upon including a substantially
similar Disclaimer requirement for further binary redistribution.
3. Neither the names of the above-listed copyright holders nor the names
of any contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

NO WARRANTY
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF NONINFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTIBILITY
AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY,
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-style

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice and this list of conditions.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice and this list of conditions in the documentation and/or other
materials provided with the distribution.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-style

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.

This program is distributed in the hope it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for
more details.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: copyleft-next 0.3.1 or GPL-2.0-or-later

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms and conditions of the GNU General Public License,
version 2, as published by the Free Software Foundation.

Alternatively, redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.

This program is distributed in the hope it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for
more details.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

This file is provided under the terms of the Cavium License (BSD-3-Clause) or
under the terms of GNU General Public License, Version 2, as published by the
Free Software Foundation. When using or redistributing this file, you may do so
under either license.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-1.0-or-later or X11

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or MPL-1.1

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Freescale Semiconductor nor the
names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.


ALTERNATIVELY, this software may be distributed under the terms of the
GNU General Public License ("GPL") as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 2 of that License or (at your option) any
later version.

This software is provided by Freescale Semiconductor "as is" and any
express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, the implied
warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are
disclaimed. In no event shall Freescale Semiconductor be liable for any
direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages
(including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services;
loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and
on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort
(including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of
this software, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-or-later or X11

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-1.0-or-later or X11

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or X11

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-or-later WITH Linux-syscall-note or MIT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-or-later or MIT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or MIT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: LGPL-2.1-only or MIT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: LGPL-2.1-only or BSD-2-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: LGPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-2-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or ISC-Style-Red-Hat

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-or-later or Permission-Notice

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-style

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-3-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-syscall-note or Linux-OpenIB

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-syscall-note or BSD-3-Clause
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-syscall-note or MIT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or Linux-OpenIB

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or GFDL-1.2-no-invariants-only

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or BSD-style

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or BSD-3-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or BSD-2-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or Apache-2.0

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-or-later or CC-BY-4.0

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-2-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-3.0-only or GPL-2.0-only

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or Linux-OpenIB or BSD-2-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or GFDL-1.1-no-invariants-or-later

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or CDDL-1.0

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-2.0-only or Apache-2.0 or OpenSSL or CC0-1.0

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-1.0-or-later or BSD-3-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-1.0-or-later or BSD-2-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GPL-1.0-or-later or MIT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: GFDL-1.2-only or GPL-2.0-only

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: LGPL-2.0-only or CMU-License

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: Apache-2.0 or MIT

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: (GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-3-Clause) AND MIT-style

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: (GPL-2.0-or-later WITH Linux-syscall-note) or BSD-3-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: (GPL-2.0-or-later OR BSD-3-Clause) AND MIT-style

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: (GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-syscall-note) or CDDL-1.0

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: (GPL-1.0-or-later or Artistic-Perl) or GPL-2.0-only

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License: (GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-syscall-note) or BSD-2-Clause

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

License:  GPL-2.0-or-later or LGPL-3.0-or-later 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MS-LPL

Microsoft Limited Public License (Ms-LPL)

This license governs use of the accompanying software. If you use the software,
you accept this license. If you do not accept the license, do not use the
software.

1.  Definitions
The terms "reproduce," "reproduction," "derivative works," and "distribution"
have the same meaning here as under U.S. copyright law. A "contribution" is the
original software, or any additions or changes to the software. A "contributor"
is any person that distributes its contribution under this license. "Licensed
patents" are a contributor's patent claims that read directly on its
contribution.

2.  Grant of Rights
     (A) Copyright Grant- Subject to the terms of this license, including the
license conditions and limitations in section 3, each contributor grants you a
non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to reproduce its
contribution, prepare derivative works of its contribution, and distribute its
contribution or any derivative works that you create.

     (B) Patent Grant- Subject to the terms of this license, including the
license conditions and limitations in section 3, each contributor grants you a
non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free license under its licensed patents to
make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale, import, and/or otherwise dispose of
its contribution in the software or derivative works of the contribution in the
software.

3.  Conditions and Limitations
     (A) No Trademark License- This license does not grant you rights to use any
contributors' name, logo, or trademarks.

     (B) If you bring a patent claim against any contributor over patents that
you claim are infringed by the software, your patent license from such
contributor to the software ends automatically.

     (C) If you distribute any portion of the software, you must retain all
copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices that are present in the
software.

     (D) If you distribute any portion of the software in source code form, you
may do so only under this license by including a complete copy of this license
with your distribution. If you distribute any portion of the software in
compiled or object code form, you may only do so under a license that complies
with this license.

     (E) The software is licensed "as-is." You bear the risk of using it. The
contributors give no express warranties, guarantees, or conditions. You may have
additional consumer rights under your local laws which this license cannot
change. To the extent permitted under your local laws, the contributors exclude
the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and
non-infringement.

     (F) Platform Limitation- The licenses granted in sections 2(A) & 2(B)
extend only to the software or derivative works that you create that run on a
Microsoft Windows operating system product.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC0-1.0

Creative Commons Legal Code

CC0 1.0 Universal

    CREATIVE COMMONS CORPORATION IS NOT A LAW FIRM AND DOES NOT PROVIDE
    LEGAL SERVICES. DISTRIBUTION OF THIS DOCUMENT DOES NOT CREATE AN
    ATTORNEY-CLIENT RELATIONSHIP. CREATIVE COMMONS PROVIDES THIS
    INFORMATION ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CREATIVE COMMONS MAKES NO WARRANTIES
    REGARDING THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE INFORMATION OR WORKS
    PROVIDED HEREUNDER, AND DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM
    THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE INFORMATION OR WORKS PROVIDED
    HEREUNDER.

Statement of Purpose

The laws of most jurisdictions throughout the world automatically confer
exclusive Copyright and Related Rights (defined below) upon the creator
and subsequent owner(s) (each and all, an "owner") of an original work of
authorship and/or a database (each, a "Work").

Certain owners wish to permanently relinquish those rights to a Work for
the purpose of contributing to a commons of creative, cultural and
scientific works ("Commons") that the public can reliably and without fear
of later claims of infringement build upon, modify, incorporate in other
works, reuse and redistribute as freely as possible in any form whatsoever
and for any purposes, including without limitation commercial purposes.
These owners may contribute to the Commons to promote the ideal of a free
culture and the further production of creative, cultural and scientific
works, or to gain reputation or greater distribution for their Work in
part through the use and efforts of others.

For these and/or other purposes and motivations, and without any
expectation of additional consideration or compensation, the person
associating CC0 with a Work (the "Affirmer"), to the extent that he or she
is an owner of Copyright and Related Rights in the Work, voluntarily
elects to apply CC0 to the Work and publicly distribute the Work under its
terms, with knowledge of his or her Copyright and Related Rights in the
Work and the meaning and intended legal effect of CC0 on those rights.

1. Copyright and Related Rights. A Work made available under CC0 may be
protected by copyright and related or neighboring rights ("Copyright and
Related Rights"). Copyright and Related Rights include, but are not
limited to, the following:

  i. the right to reproduce, adapt, distribute, perform, display,
     communicate, and translate a Work;
 ii. moral rights retained by the original author(s) and/or performer(s);
iii. publicity and privacy rights pertaining to a person's image or
     likeness depicted in a Work;
 iv. rights protecting against unfair competition in regards to a Work,
     subject to the limitations in paragraph 4(a), below;
  v. rights protecting the extraction, dissemination, use and reuse of data
     in a Work;
 vi. database rights (such as those arising under Directive 96/9/EC of the
     European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal
     protection of databases, and under any national implementation
     thereof, including any amended or successor version of such
     directive); and
vii. other similar, equivalent or corresponding rights throughout the
     world based on applicable law or treaty, and any national
     implementations thereof.

2. Waiver. To the greatest extent permitted by, but not in contravention
of, applicable law, Affirmer hereby overtly, fully, permanently,
irrevocably and unconditionally waives, abandons, and surrenders all of
Affirmer's Copyright and Related Rights and associated claims and causes
of action, whether now known or unknown (including existing as well as
future claims and causes of action), in the Work (i) in all territories
worldwide, (ii) for the maximum duration provided by applicable law or
treaty (including future time extensions), (iii) in any current or future
medium and for any number of copies, and (iv) for any purpose whatsoever,
including without limitation commercial, advertising or promotional
purposes (the "Waiver"). Affirmer makes the Waiver for the benefit of each
member of the public at large and to the detriment of Affirmer's heirs and
successors, fully intending that such Waiver shall not be subject to
revocation, rescission, cancellation, termination, or any other legal or
equitable action to disrupt the quiet enjoyment of the Work by the public
as contemplated by Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose.

3. Public License Fallback. Should any part of the Waiver for any reason
be judged legally invalid or ineffective under applicable law, then the
Waiver shall be preserved to the maximum extent permitted taking into
account Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose. In addition, to the
extent the Waiver is so judged Affirmer hereby grants to each affected
person a royalty-free, non transferable, non sublicensable, non exclusive,
irrevocable and unconditional license to exercise Affirmer's Copyright and
Related Rights in the Work (i) in all territories worldwide, (ii) for the
maximum duration provided by applicable law or treaty (including future
time extensions), (iii) in any current or future medium and for any number
of copies, and (iv) for any purpose whatsoever, including without
limitation commercial, advertising or promotional purposes (the
"License"). The License shall be deemed effective as of the date CC0 was
applied by Affirmer to the Work. Should any part of the License for any
reason be judged legally invalid or ineffective under applicable law, such
partial invalidity or ineffectiveness shall not invalidate the remainder
of the License, and in such case Affirmer hereby affirms that he or she
will not (i) exercise any of his or her remaining Copyright and Related
Rights in the Work or (ii) assert any associated claims and causes of
action with respect to the Work, in either case contrary to Affirmer's
express Statement of Purpose.

4. Limitations and Disclaimers.

 a. No trademark or patent rights held by Affirmer are waived, abandoned,
    surrendered, licensed or otherwise affected by this document.
 b. Affirmer offers the Work as-is and makes no representations or
    warranties of any kind concerning the Work, express, implied,
    statutory or otherwise, including without limitation warranties of
    title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non
    infringement, or the absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or
    the present or absence of errors, whether or not discoverable, all to
    the greatest extent permissible under applicable law.
 c. Affirmer disclaims responsibility for clearing rights of other persons
    that may apply to the Work or any use thereof, including without
    limitation any person's Copyright and Related Rights in the Work.
    Further, Affirmer disclaims responsibility for obtaining any necessary
    consents, permissions or other rights required for any use of the
    Work.
 d. Affirmer understands and acknowledges that Creative Commons is not a
    party to this document and has no duty or obligation with respect to
    this CC0 or use of the Work.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HPND

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and
that the name of the copyright holders not be used in advertising or
publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
written prior permission. The copyright holders make no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as
is" without express or implied warranty.

THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE
OF THIS SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HPND

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and its
documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
documentation, and that the name of the authors not be used in
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without
specific, written prior permission. The authors makes no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.

THE AUTHORS DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NTP

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its  
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided  
that the above copyright notice appears in all copies and that both the  
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting  
documentation, and that the name University of Delaware not be used in  
advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software  
without specific, written prior permission. The University of Delaware  
makes no representations about the suitability this software for any  
purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.  

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ISC

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ISC

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ISC

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-4-Clause-UC

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
must display the following acknowledgement:
This product includes software developed by the University of
California, Berkeley and its contributors.
4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause-Clear

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted (subject to the limitations in the disclaimer
below) provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of [Owner Organization] nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

NO EXPRESS OR IMPLIED LICENSES TO ANY PARTY'S PATENT RIGHTS ARE GRANTED BY
THIS LICENSE. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND
CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER
OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source or binary forms, with or without
modifications, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following Disclaimer as comments in the code as
well as in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.

. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following Disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

. Neither the name of Agere Systems Inc. nor the names of the contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

Disclaimer

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, INFRINGEMENT AND THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. ANY
USE, MODIFICATION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THIS SOFTWARE IS SOLELY AT THE USERS OWN
RISK. IN NO EVENT SHALL AGERE SYSTEMS INC. OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT
OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
   list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

 * Neither the name Facebook, nor Meta, nor the names of its contributors may
   be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
   specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of NXP Semiconductor nor the
names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY NXP Semiconductor ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL NXP Semiconductor BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Freescale Semiconductor nor the
names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY Freescale Semiconductor ``AS IS'' AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL Freescale Semiconductor BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. nor the
names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL <COPYRIGHT HOLDER> BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the names of the copyright holders nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "ASIS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the names of the copyright holders nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Trident Microsystems nor Hauppauge Computer Works
nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior written
permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of Freescale Semiconductor nor the
names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

This software is provided by Freescale Semiconductor "as is" and any
express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, the implied
warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose are
disclaimed. In no event shall Freescale Semiconductor be liable for any
direct, indirect, incidental, special, exemplary, or consequential damages
(including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services;
loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and
on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort
(including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of
this software, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain this licence text
without modification, this list of conditions, and the following
disclaimer. The following copyright notice must appear immediately at
the beginning of all source files:

Copyright (c) 1998-2007 InnoSys Incorporated. All Rights Reserved

This file is available under a BSD-style copyright

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. The name of InnoSys Incorprated may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior written
permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY INNOSYS CORP. ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN
NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
* Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS
IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.

* Neither the name of the Intel Corporation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.


THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY INTEL CORPORATION ""AS IS"" AND ANY
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL INTEL CORPORATION OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.

* Neither the name of Cavium Networks nor the names of
its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written
permission.

This Software, including technical data, may be subject to U.S. export
control laws, including the U.S. Export Administration Act and its associated
regulations, and may be subject to export or import regulations in other
countries.

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS"
AND WITH ALL FAULTS AND CAVIUM NETWORKS MAKES NO PROMISES, REPRESENTATIONS OR
WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY, OR OTHERWISE, WITH RESPECT TO
THE SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ITS CONDITION, ITS CONFORMITY TO ANY REPRESENTATION
OR DESCRIPTION, OR THE EXISTENCE OF ANY LATENT OR PATENT DEFECTS, AND CAVIUM
SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED (IF ANY) WARRANTIES OF TITLE,
MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, LACK OF
VIRUSES, ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS, QUIET ENJOYMENT, QUIET POSSESSION OR
CORRESPONDENCE TO DESCRIPTION. THE ENTIRE RISK ARISING OUT OF USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE LIES WITH YOU.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES(INCLUDING,BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the Institute nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE INSTITUTE AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INSTITUTE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of Myricom, Inc. nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of IBM nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS''
AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL IBM OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of GIAGIO.COM nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
3. The names of its contributors may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior written
permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
including the disclaimer of warranties.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior
written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ALL OF
WHICH ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
including the disclaimer of warranties.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior
written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1) Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2) Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3) The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific psisusbr written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1) Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2) Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3) The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

Neither the name of Texas Instruments Incorporated nor the names of
its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE,
EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer,
without modification.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. The names of the authors may not be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior written
permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of Volkswagen nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, and the entire permission notice in its entirety,
including the disclaimer of warranties.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
products derived from this software without specific prior
written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, ALL OF
WHICH ARE HEREBY DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE
USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF NOT ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
- Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
* Neither the name of OpenVPN Technologies nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
* Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
* Neither the name of Broadcom nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
* Neither the name of Broadcom Corporation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
* Neither the name Texas Instruments nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
* Neither the name Intel Corporation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copy
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
* Neither the name of AMD Corporation nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with
or without modification, are permitted provided that the following
conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
with the distribution.

* Neither the name of Cavium Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be
used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.

This Software, including technical data, may be subject to U.S. export
control laws, including the U.S. Export Administration Act and its
associated regulations, and may be subject to export or import
regulations in other countries.

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS"
AND WITH ALL FAULTS AND CAVIUM INC. MAKES NO PROMISES, REPRESENTATIONS
OR WARRANTIES, EITHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED, STATUTORY, OR OTHERWISE, WITH
RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ITS CONDITION, ITS CONFORMITY TO ANY
REPRESENTATION OR DESCRIPTION, OR THE EXISTENCE OF ANY LATENT OR PATENT
DEFECTS, AND CAVIUM SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ALL IMPLIED (IF ANY)
WARRANTIES OF TITLE, MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, LACK OF VIRUSES, ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS, QUIET
ENJOYMENT, QUIET POSSESSION OR CORRESPONDENCE TO DESCRIPTION. THE
ENTIRE RISK ARISING OUT OF USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE SOFTWARE LIES
WITH YOU.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 are met:

 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copy
 notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
 the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
 distribution.
 * Neither the name of Intel Corporation nor the names of its
 contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
 from this software without specific prior written permission.

 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
 "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
 LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
 A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
 OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
 SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
 LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
 DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
 THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
 (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
 OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-3.0

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 3, 29 June 2007

Copyright © 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for software and
other kinds of works.

The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed to take
away your freedom to share and change the works. By contrast, the GNU General
Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change all
versions of a program--to make sure it remains free software for all its users.
We, the Free Software Foundation, use the GNU General Public License for most of
our software; it applies also to any other work released this way by its
authors. You can apply it to your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for them if you wish), that you
receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the
software or use pieces of it in new free programs, and that you know you can do
these things.

To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you these rights
or asking you to surrender the rights. Therefore, you have certain
responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it:
responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same freedoms that you received. You
must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must
show them these terms so they know their rights.

Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps: (1) assert
copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License giving you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains that there
is no warranty for this free software. For both users' and authors' sake, the
GPL requires that modified versions be marked as changed, so that their problems
will not be attributed erroneously to authors of previous versions.

Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run modified
versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer can do so. This
is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of protecting users' freedom to
change the software. The systematic pattern of such abuse occurs in the area of
products for individuals to use, which is precisely where it is most
unacceptable. Therefore, we have designed this version of the GPL to prohibit
the practice for those products. If such problems arise substantially in other
domains, we stand ready to extend this provision to those domains in future
versions of the GPL, as needed to protect the freedom of users.

Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents. States
should not allow patents to restrict development and use of software on general-
purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to avoid the special danger
that patents applied to a free program could make it effectively proprietary. To
prevent this, the GPL assures that patents cannot be used to render the program
non-free.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

0. Definitions.

"This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

"Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of works,
such as semiconductor masks.

"The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this License. Each
licensee is addressed as "you". "Licensees" and "recipients" may be individuals
or organizations.

To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work in a
fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an exact copy.
The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the earlier work or a work
"based on" the earlier work.

A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based on the
Program.

To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without permission,
would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement under applicable
copyright law, except executing it on a computer or modifying a private copy.
Propagation includes copying, distribution (with or without modification),
making available to the public, and in some countries other activities as well.

To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other parties to
make or receive copies. Mere interaction with a user through a computer network,
with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices" to the extent
that it includes a convenient and prominently visible feature that (1) displays
an appropriate copyright notice, and (2) tells the user that there is no
warranty for the work (except to the extent that warranties are provided), that
licensees may convey the work under this License, and how to view a copy of this
License. If the interface presents a list of user commands or options, such as a
menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion.

1. Source Code.
The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. "Object code" means any non-source form of a work.

A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official standard
defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of interfaces specified
for a particular programming language, one that is widely used among developers
working in that language.

The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other than the
work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of packaging a Major
Component, but which is not part of that Major Component, and (b) serves only to
enable use of the work with that Major Component, or to implement a Standard
Interface for which an implementation is available to the public in source code
form. A "Major Component", in this context, means a major essential component
(kernel, window system, and so on) of the specific operating system (if any) on
which the executable work runs, or a compiler used to produce the work, or an
object code interpreter used to run it.

The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all the source
code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable work) run the object
code and to modify the work, including scripts to control those activities.
However, it does not include the work's System Libraries, or general-purpose
tools or generally available free programs which are used unmodified in
performing those activities but which are not part of the work. For example,
Corresponding Source includes interface definition files associated with source
files for the work, and the source code for shared libraries and dynamically
linked subprograms that the work is specifically designed to require, such as by
intimate data communication or control flow between those subprograms and other
parts of the work.

The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users can regenerate
automatically from other parts of the Corresponding Source.

The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that same work.

2. Basic Permissions.
All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of copyright on
the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated conditions are met. This
License explicitly affirms your unlimited permission to run the unmodified
Program. The output from running a covered work is covered by this License only
if the output, given its content, constitutes a covered work. This License
acknowledges your rights of fair use or other equivalent, as provided by
copyright law.

You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey, without
conditions so long as your license otherwise remains in force. You may convey
covered works to others for the sole purpose of having them make modifications
exclusively for you, or provide you with facilities for running those works,
provided that you comply with the terms of this License in conveying all
material for which you do not control copyright. Those thus making or running
the covered works for you must do so exclusively on your behalf, under your
direction and control, on terms that prohibit them from making any copies of
your copyrighted material outside their relationship with you.

Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under the conditions
stated below. Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10 makes it unnecessary.

3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.
No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological measure under
any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article 11 of the WIPO copyright
treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or similar laws prohibiting or restricting
circumvention of such measures.

When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention is
effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to the covered
work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or modification of the
work as a means of enforcing, against the work's users, your or third parties'
legal rights to forbid circumvention of technological measures.

4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.
You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you receive it,
in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each
copy an appropriate copyright notice; keep intact all notices stating that this
License and any non-permissive terms added in accord with section 7 apply to the
code; keep intact all notices of the absence of any warranty; and give all
recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.

You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey, and you may
offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.
You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to produce it
from the Program, in the form of source code under the terms of section 4,
provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

     a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified it, and
giving a relevant date.

     b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released under
this License and any conditions added under section 7. This requirement modifies
the requirement in section 4 to "keep intact all notices".

     c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to
anyone who comes into possession of a copy. This License will therefore apply,
along with any applicable section 7 additional terms, to the whole of the work,
and all its parts, regardless of how they are packaged. This License gives no
permission to license the work in any other way, but it does not invalidate such
permission if you have separately received it.

     d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has interactive interfaces
that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your work need not make them do
so.

A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent works, which
are not by their nature extensions of the covered work, and which are not
combined with it such as to form a larger program, in or on a volume of a
storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the compilation and
its resulting copyright are not used to limit the access or legal rights of the
compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit. Inclusion of a
covered work in an aggregate does not cause this License to apply to the other
parts of the aggregate.

6. Conveying Non-Source Forms.
You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms of sections 4
and 5, provided that you also convey the machine-readable Corresponding Source
under the terms of this License, in one of these ways:

     a) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product (including
a physical distribution medium), accompanied by the Corresponding Source fixed
on a durable physical medium customarily used for software interchange.

     b) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product (including
a physical distribution medium), accompanied by a written offer, valid for at
least three years and valid for as long as you offer spare parts or customer
support for that product model, to give anyone who possesses the object code
either (1) a copy of the Corresponding Source for all the software in the
product that is covered by this License, on a durable physical medium
customarily used for software interchange, for a price no more than your
reasonable cost of physically performing this conveying of source, or (2) access
to copy the Corresponding Source from a network server at no charge.

     c) Convey individual copies of the object code with a copy of the written
offer to provide the Corresponding Source. This alternative is allowed only
occasionally and noncommercially, and only if you received the object code with
such an offer, in accord with subsection 6b.

     d) Convey the object code by offering access from a designated place
(gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the Corresponding
Source in the same way through the same place at no further charge. You need not
require recipients to copy the Corresponding Source along with the object code.
If the place to copy the object code is a network server, the Corresponding
Source may be on a different server (operated by you or a third party) that
supports equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain clear directions
next to the object code saying where to find the Corresponding Source.
Regardless of what server hosts the Corresponding Source, you remain obligated
to ensure that it is available for as long as needed to satisfy these
requirements.

     e) Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission, provided you
inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding Source of the work
are being offered to the general public at no charge under subsection 6d.

A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is excluded from the
Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be included in conveying the
object code work.

A "User Product" is either (1) a "consumer product", which means any tangible
personal property which is normally used for personal, family, or household
purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold for incorporation into a dwelling. In
determining whether a product is a consumer product, doubtful cases shall be
resolved in favor of coverage. For a particular product received by a particular
user, "normally used" refers to a typical or common use of that class of
product, regardless of the status of the particular user or of the way in which
the particular user actually uses, or expects or is expected to use, the
product. A product is a consumer product regardless of whether the product has
substantial commercial, industrial or non-consumer uses, unless such uses
represent the only significant mode of use of the product.

"Installation Information" for a User Product means any methods, procedures,
authorization keys, or other information required to install and execute
modified versions of a covered work in that User Product from a modified version
of its Corresponding Source. The information must suffice to ensure that the
continued functioning of the modified object code is in no case prevented or
interfered with solely because modification has been made.

If you convey an object code work under this section in, or with, or
specifically for use in, a User Product, and the conveying occurs as part of a
transaction in which the right of possession and use of the User Product is
transferred to the recipient in perpetuity or for a fixed term (regardless of
how the transaction is characterized), the Corresponding Source conveyed under
this section must be accompanied by the Installation Information. But this
requirement does not apply if neither you nor any third party retains the
ability to install modified object code on the User Product (for example, the
work has been installed in ROM).

The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or updates for a
work that has been modified or installed by the recipient, or for the User
Product in which it has been modified or installed. Access to a network may be
denied when the modification itself materially and adversely affects the
operation of the network or violates the rules and protocols for communication
across the network.

Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information provided, in accord
with this section must be in a format that is publicly documented (and with an
implementation available to the public in source code form), and must require no
special password or key for unpacking, reading or copying.

7. Additional Terms.
"Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this License by
making exceptions from one or more of its conditions. Additional permissions
that are applicable to the entire Program shall be treated as though they were
included in this License, to the extent that they are valid under applicable
law. If additional permissions apply only to part of the Program, that part may
be used separately under those permissions, but the entire Program remains
governed by this License without regard to the additional permissions.

When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option remove any
additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of it. (Additional
permissions may be written to require their own removal in certain cases when
you modify the work.) You may place additional permissions on material, added by
you to a covered work, for which you have or can give appropriate copyright
permission.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you add to a
covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders of that material)
supplement the terms of this License with terms:

     a) Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the terms of
sections 15 and 16 of this License; or

     b) Requiring preservation of specified reasonable legal notices or author
attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal Notices displayed by
works containing it; or

     c) Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in reasonable ways
as different from the original version; or

     d) Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names of licensors or authors
of the material; or

     e) Declining to grant rights under trademark law for use of some trade
names, trademarks, or service marks; or

     f) Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that material by
anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of it) with contractual
assumptions of liability to the recipient, for any liability that these
contractual assumptions directly impose on those licensors and authors.

All other non-permissive additional terms are considered "further restrictions"
within the meaning of section 10. If the Program as you received it, or any part
of it, contains a notice stating that it is governed by this License along with
a term that is a further restriction, you may remove that term. If a license
document contains a further restriction but permits relicensing or conveying
under this License, you may add to a covered work material governed by the terms
of that license document, provided that the further restriction does not survive
such relicensing or conveying.

If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you must place,
in the relevant source files, a statement of the additional terms that apply to
those files, or a notice indicating where to find the applicable terms.

Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the form of a
separately written license, or stated as exceptions; the above requirements
apply either way.

8. Termination.
You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly provided
under this License. Any attempt otherwise to propagate or modify it is void, and
will automatically terminate your rights under this License (including any
patent licenses granted under the third paragraph of section 11).

However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from a
particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until
the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license, and (b)
permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation by
some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.

Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated
permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some
reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of violation
of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you cure the
violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.

Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the licenses of
parties who have received copies or rights from you under this License. If your
rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated, you do not qualify
to receive new licenses for the same material under section 10.

9. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.
You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or run a copy of
the Program. Ancillary propagation of a covered work occurring solely as a
consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission to receive a copy likewise does
not require acceptance. However, nothing other than this License grants you
permission to propagate or modify any covered work. These actions infringe
copyright if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or
propagating a covered work, you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so.

10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.
Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically receives a
license from the original licensors, to run, modify and propagate that work,
subject to this License. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by
third parties with this License.

An "entity transaction" is a transaction transferring control of an
organization, or substantially all assets of one, or subdividing an
organization, or merging organizations. If propagation of a covered work results
from an entity transaction, each party to that transaction who receives a copy
of the work also receives whatever licenses to the work the party's predecessor
in interest had or could give under the previous paragraph, plus a right to
possession of the Corresponding Source of the work from the predecessor in
interest, if the predecessor has it or can get it with reasonable efforts.

You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the rights
granted or affirmed under this License. For example, you may not impose a
license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of rights granted under this
License, and you may not initiate litigation (including a cross-claim or
counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that any patent claim is infringed by
making, using, selling, offering for sale, or importing the Program or any
portion of it.

11. Patents.
A "contributor" is a copyright holder who authorizes use under this License of
the Program or a work on which the Program is based. The work thus licensed is
called the contributor's "contributor version".

A contributor's "essential patent claims" are all patent claims owned or
controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or hereafter acquired,
that would be infringed by some manner, permitted by this License, of making,
using, or selling its contributor version, but do not include claims that would
be infringed only as a consequence of further modification of the contributor
version. For purposes of this definition, "control" includes the right to grant
patent sublicenses in a manner consistent with the requirements of this License.

Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent
license under the contributor's essential patent claims, to make, use, sell,
offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and propagate the contents of
its contributor version.

In the following three paragraphs, a "patent license" is any express agreement
or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a patent (such as an express
permission to practice a patent or covenant not to sue for patent infringement).
To "grant" such a patent license to a party means to make such an agreement or
commitment not to enforce a patent against the party.

If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license, and the
Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone to copy, free of
charge and under the terms of this License, through a publicly available network
server or other readily accessible means, then you must either (1) cause the
Corresponding Source to be so available, or (2) arrange to deprive yourself of
the benefit of the patent license for this particular work, or (3) arrange, in a
manner consistent with the requirements of this License, to extend the patent
license to downstream recipients. "Knowingly relying" means you have actual
knowledge that, but for the patent license, your conveying the covered work in a
country, or your recipient's use of the covered work in a country, would
infringe one or more identifiable patents in that country that you have reason
to believe are valid.

If, pursuant to or in connection with a single transaction or arrangement, you
convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of, a covered work, and grant a
patent license to some of the parties receiving the covered work authorizing
them to use, propagate, modify or convey a specific copy of the covered work,
then the patent license you grant is automatically extended to all recipients of
the covered work and works based on it.

A patent license is "discriminatory" if it does not include within the scope of
its coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is conditioned on the non-exercise
of one or more of the rights that are specifically granted under this License.
You may not convey a covered work if you are a party to an arrangement with a
third party that is in the business of distributing software, under which you
make payment to the third party based on the extent of your activity of
conveying the work, and under which the third party grants, to any of the
parties who would receive the covered work from you, a discriminatory patent
license (a) in connection with copies of the covered work conveyed by you (or
copies made from those copies), or (b) primarily for and in connection with
specific products or compilations that contain the covered work, unless you
entered into that arrangement, or that patent license was granted, prior to 28
March 2007.

Nothing in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting any implied
license or other defenses to infringement that may otherwise be available to you
under applicable patent law.

12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom.
If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse
you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot convey a covered work so
as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other
pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not convey it at all. For
example, if you agree to terms that obligate you to collect a royalty for
further conveying from those to whom you convey the Program, the only way you
could satisfy both those terms and this License would be to refrain entirely
from conveying the Program.

13. Use with the GNU Affero General Public License.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have permission to link
or combine any covered work with a work licensed under version 3 of the GNU
Affero General Public License into a single combined work, and to convey the
resulting work. The terms of this License will continue to apply to the part
which is the covered work, but the special requirements of the GNU Affero
General Public License, section 13, concerning interaction through a network
will apply to the combination as such.

14. Revised Versions of this License.
The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the GNU
General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program specifies
that a certain numbered version of the GNU General Public License "or any later
version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that numbered version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number
of the GNU General Public License, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of the
GNU General Public License can be used, that proxy's public statement of
acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you to choose that version for
the Program.

Later license versions may give you additional or different permissions.
However, no additional obligations are imposed on any author or copyright holder
as a result of your choosing to follow a later version.

15. Disclaimer of Warranty.
THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER
PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE
DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

16. Limitation of Liability.
IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL ANY
COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS THE PROGRAM AS
PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE
THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED
INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE
PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY
HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.
If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided above cannot
be given local legal effect according to their terms, reviewing courts shall
apply local law that most closely approximates an absolute waiver of all civil
liability in connection with the Program, unless a warranty or assumption of
liability accompanies a copy of the Program in return for a fee.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively state the exclusion of
warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a pointer
to where the full notice is found.

     <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
     Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

     This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program does terminal interaction, make it output a short notice like
this when it starts in an interactive mode:

     <program>  Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>
     This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
     This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain
conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, your program's commands might be
different; for a GUI interface, you would use an "about box".

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or school, if
any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. For more
information on this, and how to apply and follow the GNU GPL, see
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

The GNU General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs. If your program is a subroutine library, you may consider
it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the library. If
this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General Public License instead
of this License. But first, please read <http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/why-not-
lgpl.html>.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-1.0

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 1, February 1989

Copyright (C) 1989 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The license agreements of most software companies try to keep users at the mercy
of those companies. By contrast, our General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. The General Public License applies to the
Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors
commit to using it. You can use it for your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.
Specifically, the General Public License is designed to make sure that you have
the freedom to give away or sell copies of free software, that you receive
source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the software or
use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can do these
things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of a such a program, whether gratis or for
a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must tell them
their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND
MODIFICATION

0. This License Agreement applies to any program or other work which contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the
terms of this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such
program or work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or
any work containing the Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with
modifications. Each licensee is addressed as "you".

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code as
you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately
publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty;
keep intact all the notices that refer to this General Public License and to the
absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of
this General Public License along with the Program. You may charge a fee for the
physical act of transferring a copy.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it, and
copy and distribute such modifications under the terms of Paragraph 1 above,
provided that you also do the following:

     a) cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating that you
changed the files and the date of any change; and

     b) cause the whole of any work that you distribute or publish, that in
whole or in part contains the Program or any part thereof, either with or
without modifications, to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under
the terms of this General Public License (except that you may choose to grant
warranty protection to some or all third parties, at your option).

     c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the simplest
and most usual way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this General Public
License.

     d) You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

Mere aggregation of another independent work with the Program (or its
derivative) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the
other work under the scope of these terms.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Paragraph 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Paragraphs 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

     a) accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

     b) accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party free (except for a nominal charge for the cost of
distribution) a complete machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code,
to be distributed under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

     c) accompany it with the information you received as to where the
corresponding source code may be obtained. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form alone.)

Source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable file, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains; but, as a special exception, it need
not include source code for modules which are standard libraries that accompany
the operating system on which the executable file runs, or for standard header
files or definitions files that accompany that operating system.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer the Program
except as expressly provided under this General Public License. Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights to use the Program under this
License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights to use copies,
from you under this General Public License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

5. By copying, distributing or modifying the Program (or any work based on the
Program) you indicate your acceptance of this license to do so, and all its
terms and conditions.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein.

7. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program specifies
a version number of the license which applies to it and "any later version", you
have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version or
of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Program
does not specify a version number of the license, you may choose any version
ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

8. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

NO WARRANTY

9. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

10. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

Appendix: How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to humanity, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

     <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
Copyright (C) 19yy <name of author>

     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 1, or (at your option) any later version.

     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass
Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

     Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) 19xx name of author Gnomovision comes
with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software,
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c'
for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here a
sample; alter the names:

     Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (a program to direct compilers to make passes at assemblers)
written by James Hacker.

     <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.1

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2.1, February 1999

Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts as the
successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version number
2.1.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially
designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software
Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we
suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary
General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case,
based on the explanations below.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price.
Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom
to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish);
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change
the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are
informed that you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the library or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so
that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and
(2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no
warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else
and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the
original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected
by problems that might be introduced by others.

Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free
program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the
users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder.
Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the
library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this
license.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License,
applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the
ordinary General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in
order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.

When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared
library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a
derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License
therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria
of freedom. The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for
linking other code with the library.

We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to
protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also
provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-
free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General
Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides
advantages in certain special circumstances.

For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the
widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto
standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library.
A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used
non-free libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free
library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs
enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For
example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many
more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the
GNU/Linux operating system.

Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users'
freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the
Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified
version of the Library.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order
to run.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program which
contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party
saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public
License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as
to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been
distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either the
Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using the
Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its
contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the
Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source
code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at
your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

     a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

     b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

     c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

     d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of
data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than
as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a good
faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such
function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
its purpose remains meaningful.

(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that
is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore, Subsection
2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this
function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the
Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so
the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into
a program that is not a library.

4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is
designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called
a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative
work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a "work
that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of
the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that
the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

     a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)

     b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A
suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library
already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library
functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified
version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified
version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

     c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years,
to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a
charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

     d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.

     e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-
by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not covered
by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that the
separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library
facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

     a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the
Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be distributed
under the terms of the Sections above.

     b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of
it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying
uncombined form of the same work.

8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and
conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients'
exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing
compliance by third parties with this License.

11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library specifies
a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version",
you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version
or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version
ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

     one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.
     Copyright (C) year  name of author

     This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

     This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more
details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA Also add information
on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in
the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written
by James Random Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990
Ty Coon, President of Vice
That's all there is to it!


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Motorola

THE SOFTWARE is provided on an "AS IS" basis and without warranty.
To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law,
MOTOROLA DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE
and any warranty against infringement with regard to the SOFTWARE
(INCLUDING ANY MODIFIED VERSIONS THEREOF) and any accompanying written
materials.

To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law,
IN NO EVENT SHALL MOTOROLA BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
(INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS,
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, OR OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS)
ARISING OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE.
Motorola assumes no responsibility for the maintenance and support of the
SOFTWARE.

You are hereby granted a copyright license to use, modify, and distribute the
SOFTWARE
so long as this entire notice is retained without alteration in any modified
and/or
redistributed versions, and that such modified versions are clearly identified
as such.
No licenses are granted by implication, estoppel or otherwise under any patents
or trademarks of Motorola, Inc.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Motorola

THE SOFTWARE is provided on an "AS IS" basis and without warranty.
To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law,
MOTOROLA DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE and any warranty against infringement with
regard to the SOFTWARE (INCLUDING ANY MODIFIED VERSIONS THEREOF)
and any accompanying written materials.

To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law,
IN NO EVENT SHALL MOTOROLA BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER
(INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF BUSINESS
PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, OR
OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS) ARISING OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
SOFTWARE. Motorola assumes no responsibility for the maintenance
and support of the SOFTWARE.

You are hereby granted a copyright license to use, modify, and
distribute the SOFTWARE so long as this entire notice is retained
without alteration in any modified and/or redistributed versions,
and that such modified versions are clearly identified as such.
No licenses are granted by implication, estoppel or otherwise
under any patents or trademarks of Motorola, Inc.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is not
restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code as
you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately
publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty;
keep intact all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at
your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

     a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

     b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole or
in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

     c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with the
Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under Section
2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above
provided that you also do one of the following:

     a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

     b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

     c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code
from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though third
parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent infringement
or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions are imposed
on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that contradict the
conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the conditions of this
License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your
obligations under this License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a
consequence you may not distribute the Program at all. For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by all those
who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you
could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from
distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new problems
or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program specifies
a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version",
you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version
or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

NO WARRANTY

11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

     one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does. Copyright
(C) yyyy name of author

     This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

     This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA. Also add information
on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

     Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes
with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software,
and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c'
for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

     Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MPL-1.1

Mozilla Public License Version 1.1

1. Definitions.

     1.0.1. "Commercial Use" means distribution or otherwise making the Covered
Code available to a third party.

     1.1. "Contributor" means each entity that creates or contributes to the
creation of Modifications.

     1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original Code,
prior Modifications used by a Contributor, and the Modifications made by that
particular Contributor.

     1.3. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications or the
combination of the Original Code and Modifications, in each case including
portions thereof.

     1.4. "Electronic Distribution Mechanism" means a mechanism generally
accepted in the software development community for the electronic transfer of
data.

     1.5. "Executable" means Covered Code in any form other than Source Code.

     1.6. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity identified as the
Initial Developer in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A.

     1.7. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Code or portions
thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.

     1.8. "License" means this document.

     1.8.1. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent
possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently acquired, any
and all of the rights conveyed herein.

     1.9. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from the substance
or structure of either the Original Code or any previous Modifications. When
Covered Code is released as a series of files, a Modification is:
Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file containing Original Code
or previous Modifications.
Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or previous
Modifications.

     1.10. "Original Code" means Source Code of computer software code which is
described in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A as Original Code, and
which, at the time of its release under this License is not already Covered Code
governed by this License.

     1.10.1. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or hereafter
acquired, including without limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims,
in any patent Licensable by grantor.

     1.11. "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Covered Code for making
modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, scripts used to control compilation and installation
of an Executable, or source code differential comparisons against either the
Original Code or another well known, available Covered Code of the Contributor's
choice. The Source Code can be in a compressed or archival form, provided the
appropriate decompression or de-archiving software is widely available for no
charge.

     1.12. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal entity exercising
rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this License or a future
version of this License issued under Section 6.1. For legal entities, "You"
includes any entity which controls, is controlled by, or is under common control
with You. For purposes of this definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct
or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by
contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the
outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.

2. Source Code License.

     2.1. The Initial Developer Grant. The Initial Developer hereby grants You a
world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license, subject to third party
intellectual property claims:

          a. under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark)
Licensable by Initial Developer to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform,
sublicense and distribute the Original Code (or portions thereof) with or
without Modifications, and/or as part of a Larger Work; and
          b. under Patents Claims infringed by the making, using or selling of
Original Code, to make, have made, use, practice, sell, and offer for sale,
and/or otherwise dispose of the Original Code (or portions thereof).
          c. the licenses granted in this Section 2.1 (a) and (b) are effective
on the date Initial Developer first distributes Original Code under the terms of
this License.
          d. Notwithstanding Section 2.1 (b) above, no patent license is
granted: 1) for code that You delete from the Original Code; 2) separate from
the Original Code; or 3) for infringements caused by: i) the modification of the
Original Code or ii) the combination of the Original Code with other software or
devices.

     2.2. Contributor Grant. Subject to third party intellectual property
claims, each Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-
exclusive license

          a. under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark)
Licensable by Contributor, to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform,
sublicense and distribute the Modifications created by such Contributor (or
portions thereof) either on an unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as
Covered Code and/or as part of a Larger Work; and
          b. under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or selling of
Modifications made by that Contributor either alone and/or in combination with
its Contributor Version (or portions of such combination), to make, use, sell,
offer for sale, have made, and/or otherwise dispose of: 1) Modifications made by
that Contributor (or portions thereof); and 2) the combination of Modifications
made by that Contributor with its Contributor Version (or portions of such
combination).
          c. the licenses granted in Sections 2.2 (a) and 2.2 (b) are effective
on the date Contributor first makes Commercial Use of the Covered Code.
          d. Notwithstanding Section 2.2 (b) above, no patent license is
granted: 1) for any code that Contributor has deleted from the Contributor
Version; 2) separate from the Contributor Version; 3) for infringements caused
by: i) third party modifications of Contributor Version or ii) the combination
of Modifications made by that Contributor with other software (except as part of
the Contributor Version) or other devices; or 4) under Patent Claims infringed
by Covered Code in the absence of Modifications made by that Contributor.

3. Distribution Obligations.

     3.1. Application of License. The Modifications which You create or to which
You contribute are governed by the terms of this License, including without
limitation Section 2.2. The Source Code version of Covered Code may be
distributed only under the terms of this License or a future version of this
License released under Section 6.1, and You must include a copy of this License
with every copy of the Source Code You distribute. You may not offer or impose
any terms on any Source Code version that alters or restricts the applicable
version of this License or the recipients' rights hereunder. However, You may
include an additional document offering the additional rights described in
Section 3.5.

     3.2. Availability of Source Code. Any Modification which You create or to
which You contribute must be made available in Source Code form under the terms
of this License either on the same media as an Executable version or via an
accepted Electronic Distribution Mechanism to anyone to whom you made an
Executable version available; and if made available via Electronic Distribution
Mechanism, must remain available for at least twelve (12) months after the date
it initially became available, or at least six (6) months after a subsequent
version of that particular Modification has been made available to such
recipients. You are responsible for ensuring that the Source Code version
remains available even if the Electronic Distribution Mechanism is maintained by
a third party.

     3.3. Description of Modifications. You must cause all Covered Code to which
You contribute to contain a file documenting the changes You made to create that
Covered Code and the date of any change. You must include a prominent statement
that the Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, from Original Code
provided by the Initial Developer and including the name of the Initial
Developer in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in any notice in an Executable version
or related documentation in which You describe the origin or ownership of the
Covered Code.

     3.4. Intellectual Property Matters

          (a) Third Party Claims
          If Contributor has knowledge that a license under a third party's
intellectual property rights is required to exercise the rights granted by such
Contributor under Sections 2.1 or 2.2, Contributor must include a text file with
the Source Code distribution titled "LEGAL" which describes the claim and the
party making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipient will know whom to
contact. If Contributor obtains such knowledge after the Modification is made
available as described in Section 3.2, Contributor shall promptly modify the
LEGAL file in all copies Contributor makes available thereafter and shall take
other steps (such as notifying appropriate mailing lists or newsgroups)
reasonably calculated to inform those who received the Covered Code that new
knowledge has been obtained.

          (b) Contributor APIs
          If Contributor's Modifications include an application programming
interface and Contributor has knowledge of patent licenses which are reasonably
necessary to implement that API, Contributor must also include this information
in the LEGAL file.

          (c) Representations.
          Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant to Section
3.4 (a) above, Contributor believes that Contributor's Modifications are
Contributor's original creation(s) and/or Contributor has sufficient rights to
grant the rights conveyed by this License.

     3.5. Required Notices. You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each
file of the Source Code. If it is not possible to put such notice in a
particular Source Code file due to its structure, then You must include such
notice in a location (such as a relevant directory) where a user would be likely
to look for such a notice. If You created one or more Modification(s) You may
add your name as a Contributor to the notice described in Exhibit A. You must
also duplicate this License in any documentation for the Source Code where You
describe recipients' rights or ownership rights relating to Covered Code. You
may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or
liability obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Code. However, You
may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial Developer or
any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear than any such warranty,
support, indemnity or liability obligation is offered by You alone, and You
hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor for any
liability incurred by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of
warranty, support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.

     3.6. Distribution of Executable Versions. You may distribute Covered Code
in Executable form only if the requirements of Sections 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4 and
3.5 have been met for that Covered Code, and if You include a notice stating
that the Source Code version of the Covered Code is available under the terms of
this License, including a description of how and where You have fulfilled the
obligations of Section 3.2. The notice must be conspicuously included in any
notice in an Executable version, related documentation or collateral in which
You describe recipients' rights relating to the Covered Code. You may distribute
the Executable version of Covered Code or ownership rights under a license of
Your choice, which may contain terms different from this License, provided that
You are in compliance with the terms of this License and that the license for
the Executable version does not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's rights
in the Source Code version from the rights set forth in this License. If You
distribute the Executable version under a different license You must make it
absolutely clear that any terms which differ from this License are offered by
You alone, not by the Initial Developer or any Contributor. You hereby agree to
indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred
by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such terms You
offer.

     3.7. Larger Works. You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code
with other code not governed by the terms of this License and distribute the
Larger Work as a single product. In such a case, You must make sure the
requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code.

4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.

If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with
respect to some or all of the Covered Code due to statute, judicial order, or
regulation then You must: (a) comply with the terms of this License to the
maximum extent possible; and (b) describe the limitations and the code they
affect. Such description must be included in the LEGAL file described in Section
3.4 and must be included with all distributions of the Source Code. Except to
the extent prohibited by statute or regulation, such description must be
sufficiently detailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able to understand
it.

5. Application of this License.
This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer has attached the
notice in Exhibit A and to related Covered Code.

6. Versions of the License.

     6.1. New Versions
     Netscape Communications Corporation ("Netscape") may publish revised and/or
new versions of the License from time to time. Each version will be given a
distinguishing version number.

     6.2. Effect of New Versions
     Once Covered Code has been published under a particular version of the
License, You may always continue to use it under the terms of that version. You
may also choose to use such Covered Code under the terms of any subsequent
version of the License published by Netscape. No one other than Netscape has the
right to modify the terms applicable to Covered Code created under this License.

     6.3. Derivative Works
     If You create or use a modified version of this License (which you may only
do in order to apply it to code which is not already Covered Code governed by
this License), You must (a) rename Your license so that the phrases "Mozilla",
"MOZILLAPL", "MOZPL", "Netscape", "MPL", "NPL" or any confusingly similar phrase
do not appear in your license (except to note that your license differs from
this License) and (b) otherwise make it clear that Your version of the license
contains terms which differ from the Mozilla Public License and Netscape Public
License. (Filling in the name of the Initial Developer, Original Code or
Contributor in the notice described in Exhibit A shall not of themselves be
deemed to be modifications of this License.)

7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY
COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE,
FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE
PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER
CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.
THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO
USE OF ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.

8. Termination

     8.1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
automatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure such
breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses to the
Covered Code which are properly granted shall survive any termination of this
License. Provisions which, by their nature, must remain in effect beyond the
termination of this License shall survive.

     8.2. If You initiate litigation by asserting a patent infringement claim
(excluding declatory judgment actions) against Initial Developer or a
Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor against whom You file such
action is referred to as "Participant") alleging that:

          a. such Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectly
infringes any patent, then any and all rights granted by such Participant to You
under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this License shall, upon 60 days notice from
Participant terminate prospectively, unless if within 60 days after receipt of
notice You either: (i) agree in writing to pay Participant a mutually agreeable
reasonable royalty for Your past and future use of Modifications made by such
Participant, or (ii) withdraw Your litigation claim with respect to the
Contributor Version against such Participant. If within 60 days of notice, a
reasonable royalty and payment arrangement are not mutually agreed upon in
writing by the parties or the litigation claim is not withdrawn, the rights
granted by Participant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 automatically
terminate at the expiration of the 60 day notice period specified above.
          b. any software, hardware, or device, other than such Participant's
Contributor Version, directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then any
rights granted to You by such Participant under Sections 2.1(b) and 2.2(b) are
revoked effective as of the date You first made, used, sold, distributed, or had
made, Modifications made by that Participant.

     8.3. If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participant alleging
that such Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectly infringes any
patent where such claim is resolved (such as by license or settlement) prior to
the initiation of patent infringement litigation, then the reasonable value of
the licenses granted by such Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be
taken into account in determining the amount or value of any payment or license.

     8.4. In the event of termination under Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above, all end
user license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers) which have been
validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder prior to termination shall
survive termination.

9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER
CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED CODE, OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH
PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES
FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND
ALL OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN
INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL
NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S
NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME
JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

10. U.S. government end users
The Covered Code is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in 48 C.F.R.
2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer software" and "commercial
computer software documentation," as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212
(Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through
227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Code with
only those rights set forth herein.

11. Miscellaneous
This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject matter hereof.
If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision
shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. This
License shall be governed by California law provisions (except to the extent
applicable law, if any, provides otherwise), excluding its conflict-of-law
provisions. With respect to disputes in which at least one party is a citizen
of, or an entity chartered or registered to do business in the United States of
America, any litigation relating to this License shall be subject to the
jurisdiction of the Federal Courts of the Northern District of California, with
venue lying in Santa Clara County, California, with the losing party responsible
for costs, including without limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys'
fees and expenses. The application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts
for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. Any law or regulation
which provides that the language of a contract shall be construed against the
drafter shall not apply to this License.

12. Responsibility for claims
As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is responsible for
claims and damages arising, directly or indirectly, out of its utilization of
rights under this License and You agree to work with Initial Developer and
Contributors to distribute such responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing
herein is intended or shall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.

13. Multiple-licensed code
Initial Developer may designate portions of the Covered Code as "Multiple-
Licensed". "Multiple-Licensed" means that the Initial Developer permits you to
utilize portions of the Covered Code under Your choice of the MPL or the
alternative licenses, if any, specified by the Initial Developer in the file
described in Exhibit A.

Exhibit A - Mozilla Public License.

"The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License Version 1.1
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with the
License. You may obtain a copy of the License at http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/

Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" basis,
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing rights and limitations under the License.

The Original Code is ______________________________________.

The Initial Developer of the Original Code is ________________________.
Portions created by ______________________ are Copyright (C) ______
_______________________. All Rights Reserved.

Contributor(s): ______________________________________.

Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms of the
_____ license (the  "[___] License"), in which case the provisions of [______]
License are applicable instead of those above. If you wish to allow use of your
version of this file only under the terms of the [____] License and not to allow
others to use your version of this file under the MPL, indicate your decision by
deleting the provisions above and replace them with the notice and other
provisions required by the [___] License. If you do not delete the provisions
above, a recipient may use your version of this file under either the MPL or the
[___] License."

NOTE: The text of this Exhibit A may differ slightly from the text of the
notices in the Source Code files of the Original Code. You should use the text
of this Exhibit A rather than the text found in the Original Code Source Code
for Your Modifications.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this source file (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify,
merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,
and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) OR AUTHOR(S) BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
DAVID J. MCKAY BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial busions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) OR AUTHOR(S) BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN
AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
JEFF HARTMANN, OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE
OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
JEFF HARTMANN, DAVE JONES, OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE
OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
VA LINUX SYSTEMS AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
TUNGSTEN GRAPHICS AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
PRECISION INSIGHT AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragr) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
PRECISION INSIGHT AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the folloing conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER(S) OR AUTHOR(S) BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sub license,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions
of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
VIA, S3 GRAPHICS, AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sub license,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions
of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sub license,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions
of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL FELIX KUEHLING BE LIABLE FOR
ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF
CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
on the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sub
license, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom
the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR THEIR SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE
USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
on the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sub
license, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom
the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software")
to deal in the software without restriction, including without limitation
on the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sub
license, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom
them Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the next
paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the
Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES, OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT, OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sub license, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions
of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sub license, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions
of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS, AUTHORS AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE
USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sub license, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions
of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL TUNGSTEN GRAPHICS AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sub license, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions
of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL PRECISION INSIGHT AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sub license, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS, AUTHORS AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE
USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial portions
of the Software.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial
portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER(S) AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sub license, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial
portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL INTEL AND/OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation on the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,
publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,
and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice (including the
next paragraph) shall be included in all copies or substantial
portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL ATI, VA LINUX SYSTEMS AND/OR
THEIR SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED , WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use,
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use
copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED , WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES
OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT
MIT License

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

OpenSSL

OpenSSL License

Copyright (c) 1998-2008 The OpenSSL Project. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
other materials provided with the distribution.

3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must
display the following acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed
by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit.
(http://www.openssl.org/)"

4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to endorse
or promote products derived from this software without prior written permission.
For written permission, please contact openssl-core@openssl.org.

5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL" nor may
"OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written permission of the OpenSSL
Project.

6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
(eay@cryptsoft.com). This product includes software written by Tim Hudson
(tjh@cryptsoft.com).


Original SSLeay License

Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com) All rights reserved.

This package is an SSL implementation written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).
The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.

This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as the
following conditions are aheared to. The following conditions apply to all code
found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA, lhash, DES, etc., code; not just
the SSL code. The SSL documentation included with this distribution is covered
by the same copyright terms except that the holder is Tim Hudson
(tjh@cryptsoft.com).

Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in the code
are not to be removed. If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should
be given attribution as the author of the parts of the library used. This can be
in the form of a textual message at program startup or in documentation (online
or textual) provided with the package.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this list of
conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
other materials provided with the distribution.

3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must
display the following acknowledgement:
"This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
(eay@cryptsoft.com)"
The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the library being
used are not cryptographic related :-).

4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from the
apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement: "This
product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
OF SUCH DAMAGE.

The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or
derivative of this code cannot be changed. i.e. this code cannot simply be
copied and put under another distribution licence [including the GNU Public
Licence.]


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Zlib

zlib License

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty.  In
no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of
this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose, including
commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it freely, subject to
the following restrictions:

     1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software in a
product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be appreciated but
is not required.

     2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
misrepresented as being the original software.

     3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:
* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer,
without modification.
2. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer,
without modification.
2. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer,
without modification.
2. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions, and the following disclaimer,
without modification.
2. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-2-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
without modification, are permitted provided that the following
conditions are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer.

- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials
provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

X11

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall not
be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other
dealings in this Software without prior written authorization from the X
Consortium.

X Window System is a trademark of X Consortium, Inc.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CDDL-1.0

COMMON DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION LICENSE (CDDL)
Version 1.0

1. Definitions.

1.1. "Contributor" means each individual or entity that creates or contributes
to the creation of Modifications.

1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original Software, prior
Modifications used by a Contributor (if any), and the Modifications made by that
particular Contributor.

1.3. "Covered Software" means (a) the Original Software, or (b) Modifications,
or (c) the combination of files containing Original Software with files
containing Modifications, in each case including portions thereof.

1.4. "Executable" means the Covered Software in any form other than Source Code.

1.5. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity that first makes
Original Software available under this License.

1.6. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Software or portions
thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.

1.7. "License" means this document.

1.8. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent
possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently acquired, any
and all of the rights conveyed herein.

1.9. "Modifications" means the Source Code and Executable form of any of the
following:

     A. Any file that results from an addition to, deletion from or modification
of the contents of a file containing Original Software or previous
Modifications;

     B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Software or previous
Modification; or

     C. Any new file that is contributed or otherwise made available under the
terms of this License.

1.10. "Original Software" means the Source Code and Executable form of computer
software code that is originally released under this License.

1.11. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or hereafter
acquired, including without limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims,
in any patent Licensable by grantor.

1.12. "Source Code" means (a) the common form of computer software code in which
modifications are made and (b) associated documentation included in or with such
code.

1.13. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights
under, and complying with all of the terms of, this License. For legal entities,
"You" includes any entity which controls, is controlled by, or is under common
control with You. For purposes of this definition, "control" means (a) the
power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity,
whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent
(50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.

2. License Grants.

2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.
Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and subject to third
party intellectual property claims, the Initial Developer hereby grants You a
world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license:

     (a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark)
Licensable by Initial Developer, to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform,
sublicense and distribute the Original Software (or portions thereof), with or
without Modifications, and/or as part of a Larger Work; and

     (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using or selling of
Original Software, to make, have made, use, practice, sell, and offer for sale,
and/or otherwise dispose of the Original Software (or portions thereof).

     (c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.1(a) and (b) are effective on the
date Initial Developer first distributes or otherwise makes the Original
Software available to a third party under the terms of this License.

     (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is granted: (1)
for code that You delete from the Original Software, or (2) for infringements
caused by: (i) the modification of the Original Software, or (ii) the
combination of the Original Software with other software or devices.

2.2. Contributor Grant.
Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and subject to third
party intellectual property claims, each Contributor hereby grants You a world-
wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license:

     (a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark)
Licensable by Contributor to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform,
sublicense and distribute the Modifications created by such Contributor (or
portions thereof), either on an unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as
Covered Software and/or as part of a Larger Work; and

     (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or selling of
Modifications made by that Contributor either alone and/or in combination with
its Contributor Version (or portions of such combination), to make, use, sell,
offer for sale, have made, and/or otherwise dispose of: (1) Modifications made
by that Contributor (or portions thereof); and (2) the combination of
Modifications made by that Contributor with its Contributor Version (or portions
of such combination).

     (c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are effective on the
date Contributor first distributes or otherwise makes the Modifications
available to a third party.

     (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is granted: (1)
for any code that Contributor has deleted from the Contributor Version; (2) for
infringements caused by: (i) third party modifications of Contributor Version,
or (ii) the combination of Modifications made by that Contributor with other
software (except as part of the Contributor Version) or other devices; or (3)
under Patent Claims infringed by Covered Software in the absence of
Modifications made by that Contributor.

3. Distribution Obligations.

3.1. Availability of Source Code.
Any Covered Software that You distribute or otherwise make available in
Executable form must also be made available in Source Code form and that Source
Code form must be distributed only under the terms of this License. You must
include a copy of this License with every copy of the Source Code form of the
Covered Software You distribute or otherwise make available. You must inform
recipients of any such Covered Software in Executable form as to how they can
obtain such Covered Software in Source Code form in a reasonable manner on or
through a medium customarily used for software exchange.

3.2. Modifications.
The Modifications that You create or to which You contribute are governed by the
terms of this License. You represent that You believe Your Modifications are
Your original creation(s) and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights
conveyed by this License.

3.3. Required Notices.
You must include a notice in each of Your Modifications that identifies You as
the Contributor of the Modification. You may not remove or alter any copyright,
patent or trademark notices contained within the Covered Software, or any
notices of licensing or any descriptive text giving attribution to any
Contributor or the Initial Developer.

3.4. Application of Additional Terms.
You may not offer or impose any terms on any Covered Software in Source Code
form that alters or restricts the applicable version of this License or the
recipients' rights hereunder. You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for,
warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligations to one or more recipients
of Covered Software. However, you may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on
behalf of the Initial Developer or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely
clear that any such warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligation is
offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer
and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the Initial Developer or
such Contributor as a result of warranty, support, indemnity or liability terms
You offer.

3.5. Distribution of Executable Versions.
You may distribute the Executable form of the Covered Software under the terms
of this License or under the terms of a license of Your choice, which may
contain terms different from this License, provided that You are in compliance
with the terms of this License and that the license for the Executable form does
not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's rights in the Source Code form
from the rights set forth in this License. If You distribute the Covered
Software in Executable form under a different license, You must make it
absolutely clear that any terms which differ from this License are offered by
You alone, not by the Initial Developer or Contributor. You hereby agree to
indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred
by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such terms You
offer.

3.6. Larger Works.
You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Software with other code not
governed by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger Work as a single
product. In such a case, You must make sure the requirements of this License are
fulfilled for the Covered Software.

4. Versions of the License.

4.1. New Versions.
Sun Microsystems, Inc. is the initial license steward and may publish revised
and/or new versions of this License from time to time. Each version will be
given a distinguishing version number. Except as provided in Section 4.3, no one
other than the license steward has the right to modify this License.

4.2. Effect of New Versions.
You may always continue to use, distribute or otherwise make the Covered
Software available under the terms of the version of the License under which You
originally received the Covered Software. If the Initial Developer includes a
notice in the Original Software prohibiting it from being distributed or
otherwise made available under any subsequent version of the License, You must
distribute and make the Covered Software available under the terms of the
version of the License under which You originally received the Covered Software.
Otherwise, You may also choose to use, distribute or otherwise make the Covered
Software available under the terms of any subsequent version of the License
published by the license steward.

4.3. Modified Versions.
When You are an Initial Developer and You want to create a new license for Your
Original Software, You may create and use a modified version of this License if
You: (a) rename the license and remove any references to the name of the license
steward (except to note that the license differs from this License); and (b)
otherwise make it clear that the license contains terms which differ from this
License.

5. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.

COVERED SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT
LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS,
MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY
COVERED SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER
OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR
CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS
LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY COVERED SOFTWARE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER
THIS DISCLAIMER.

6. TERMINATION.

6.1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically
if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30
days of becoming aware of the breach. Provisions which, by their nature, must
remain in effect beyond the termination of this License shall survive.

6.2. If You assert a patent infringement claim (excluding declaratory judgment
actions) against Initial Developer or a Contributor (the Initial Developer or
Contributor against whom You assert such claim is referred to as "Participant")
alleging that the Participant Software (meaning the Contributor Version where
the Participant is a Contributor or the Original Software where the Participant
is the Initial Developer) directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then any
and all rights granted directly or indirectly to You by such Participant, the
Initial Developer (if the Initial Developer is not the Participant) and all
Contributors under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this License shall, upon 60 days
notice from Participant terminate prospectively and automatically at the
expiration of such 60 day notice period, unless if within such 60 day period You
withdraw Your claim with respect to the Participant Software against such
Participant either unilaterally or pursuant to a written agreement with
Participant.

6.3. In the event of termination under Sections 6.1 or 6.2 above, all end user
licenses that have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder
prior to termination (excluding licenses granted to You by any distributor)
shall survive termination.

7. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER
CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED SOFTWARE, OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF
SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES
FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR
MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH
PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL
INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW
PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR
LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS EXCLUSION AND
LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

8. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.

The Covered Software is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in 48
C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer software" (as that
term is defined at 48 C.F.R. § 252.227-7014(a)(1)) and "commercial computer
software documentation" as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995).
Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4
(June 1995), all U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Software with only
those rights set forth herein. This U.S. Government Rights clause is in lieu of,
and supersedes, any other FAR, DFAR, or other clause or provision that addresses
Government rights in computer software under this License.

9. MISCELLANEOUS.

This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject matter hereof.
If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision
shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. This
License shall be governed by the law of the jurisdiction specified in a notice
contained within the Original Software (except to the extent applicable law, if
any, provides otherwise), excluding such jurisdiction's conflict-of-law
provisions. Any litigation relating to this License shall be subject to the
jurisdiction of the courts located in the jurisdiction and venue specified in a
notice contained within the Original Software, with the losing party responsible
for costs, including, without limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys'
fees and expenses. The application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts
for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. Any law or regulation
which provides that the language of a contract shall be construed against the
drafter shall not apply to this License. You agree that You alone are
responsible for compliance with the United States export administration
regulations (and the export control laws and regulation of any other countries)
when You use, distribute or otherwise make available any Covered Software.

10. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.

As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is responsible for
claims and damages arising, directly or indirectly, out of its utilization of
rights under this License and You agree to work with Initial Developer and
Contributors to distribute such responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing
herein is intended or shall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Apache-2.0
Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "{}"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright {yyyy} {name of copyright owner}

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-3.0+

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 3, 29 June 2007

Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <https://fsf.org/>

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

This version of the GNU Lesser General Public License incorporates the terms and
conditions of version 3 of the GNU General Public License, supplemented by the
additional permissions listed below.

   0. Additional Definitions.

      As used herein, "this License" refers to version 3 of the GNU Lesser
General Public License, and the "GNU GPL" refers to version 3 of the GNU General
Public License.

      "The Library" refers to a covered work governed by this License, other
than an Application or a Combined Work as defined below.

      An "Application" is any work that makes use of an interface provided by
the Library, but which is not otherwise based on the Library. Defining a
subclass of a class defined by the Library is deemed a mode of using an
interface provided by the Library.

      A "Combined Work" is a work produced by combining or linking an
Application with the Library. The particular version of the Library with which
the Combined Work was made is also called the "Linked Version".

      The "Minimal Corresponding Source" for a Combined Work means the
Corresponding Source for the Combined Work, excluding any source code for
portions of the Combined Work that, considered in isolation, are based on the
Application, and not on the Linked Version.

      The "Corresponding Application Code" for a Combined Work means the object
code and/or source code for the Application, including any data and utility
programs needed for reproducing the Combined Work from the Application, but
excluding the System Libraries of the Combined Work.

   1. Exception to Section 3 of the GNU GPL.

   You may convey a covered work under sections 3 and 4 of this License without
being bound by section 3 of the GNU GPL.

   2. Conveying Modified Versions.

   If you modify a copy of the Library, and, in your modifications, a facility
refers to a function or data to be supplied by an Application that uses the
facility (other than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked), then
you may convey a copy of the modified version:

      a) under this License, provided that you make a good faith effort to
ensure that, in the event an Application does not supply the function or data,
the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of its purpose remains
meaningful, or

      b) under the GNU GPL, with none of the additional permissions of this
License applicable to that copy.

   3. Object Code Incorporating Material from Library Header Files.

   The object code form of an Application may incorporate material from a header
file that is part of the Library. You may convey such object code under terms of
your choice, provided that, if the incorporated material is not limited to
numerical parameters, data structure layouts and accessors, or small macros,
inline functions and templates (ten or fewer lines in length), you do both of
the following:

      a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the object code that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this
License.

      b) Accompany the object code with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license
document.

   4. Combined Works.

   You may convey a Combined Work under terms of your choice that, taken
together, effectively do not restrict modification of the portions of the
Library contained in the Combined Work and reverse engineering for debugging
such modifications, if you also do each of the following:

      a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the Combined Work that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this
License.

      b) Accompany the Combined Work with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license
document.

      c) For a Combined Work that displays copyright notices during execution,
include the copyright notice for the Library among these notices, as well as a
reference directing the user to the copies of the GNU GPL and this license
document.

      d) Do one of the following:

         0) Convey the Minimal Corresponding Source under the terms of this
License, and the Corresponding Application Code in a form suitable for, and
under terms that permit, the user to recombine or relink the Application with a
modified version of the Linked Version to produce a modified Combined Work, in
the manner specified by section 6 of the GNU GPL for conveying Corresponding
Source.

         1) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
Library. A suitable mechanism is one that (a) uses at run time a copy of the
Library already present on the user's computer system, and (b) will operate
properly with a modified version of the Library that is interface-compatible
with the Linked Version.

      e) Provide Installation Information, but only if you would otherwise be
required to provide such information under section 6 of the GNU GPL, and only to
the extent that such information is necessary to install and execute a modified
version of the Combined Work produced by recombining or relinking the
Application with a modified version of the Linked Version. (If you use option
4d0, the Installation Information must accompany the Minimal Corresponding
Source and Corresponding Application Code. If you use option 4d1, you must
provide the Installation Information in the manner specified by section 6 of the
GNU GPL for conveying Corresponding Source.)

   5. Combined Libraries.

   You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side by
side in a single library together with other library facilities that are not
Applications and are not covered by this License, and convey such a combined
library under terms of your choice, if you do both of the following:

      a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities, conveyed under the
terms of this License.

      b) Give prominent notice with the combined library that part of it is a
work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying
uncombined form of the same work.

   6. Revised Versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License.

   The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
GNU Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library as you
received it specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU Lesser General
Public License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of
following the terms and conditions either of that published version or of any
later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library as you
received it does not specify a version number of the GNU Lesser General Public
License, you may choose any version of the GNU Lesser General Public License
ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   If the Library as you received it specifies that a proxy can decide whether
future versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License shall apply, that
proxy's public statement of acceptance of any version is permanent authorization
for you to choose that version for the Library.

   GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 3, 29 June 2007

Copyright © 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <https://fsf.org/>

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for software and
other kinds of works.

The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed to take
away your freedom to share and change the works. By contrast, the GNU General
Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change all
versions of a program--to make sure it remains free software for all its users.
We, the Free Software Foundation, use the GNU General Public License for most of
our software; it applies also to any other work released this way by its
authors. You can apply it to your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for them if you wish), that you
receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the
software or use pieces of it in new free programs, and that you know you can do
these things.

To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you these rights
or asking you to surrender the rights. Therefore, you have certain
responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it:
responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same freedoms that you received. You
must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must
show them these terms so they know their rights.

Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps: (1) assert
copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License giving you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains that there
is no warranty for this free software. For both users' and authors' sake, the
GPL requires that modified versions be marked as changed, so that their problems
will not be attributed erroneously to authors of previous versions.

Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run modified
versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer can do so. This
is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of protecting users' freedom to
change the software. The systematic pattern of such abuse occurs in the area of
products for individuals to use, which is precisely where it is most
unacceptable. Therefore, we have designed this version of the GPL to prohibit
the practice for those products. If such problems arise substantially in other
domains, we stand ready to extend this provision to those domains in future
versions of the GPL, as needed to protect the freedom of users.

Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents. States
should not allow patents to restrict development and use of software on general-
purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to avoid the special danger
that patents applied to a free program could make it effectively proprietary. To
prevent this, the GPL assures that patents cannot be used to render the program
non-free.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   0. Definitions.

   "This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

   "Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of
works, such as semiconductor masks.

   "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this License.
Each licensee is addressed as "you". "Licensees" and "recipients" may be
individuals or organizations.

   To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work in a
fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an exact copy.
The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the earlier work or a work
"based on" the earlier work.

   A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based on the
Program.

   To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without permission,
would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement under applicable
copyright law, except executing it on a computer or modifying a private copy.
Propagation includes copying, distribution (with or without modification),
making available to the public, and in some countries other activities as well.

   To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other parties
to make or receive copies. Mere interaction with a user through a computer
network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

   An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices" to the
extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible feature that (1)
displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2) tells the user that there is
no warranty for the work (except to the extent that warranties are provided),
that licensees may convey the work under this License, and how to view a copy of
this License. If the interface presents a list of user commands or options, such
as a menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion.

   1. Source Code.

   The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. "Object code" means any non-source form of a work.

   A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official standard
defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of interfaces specified
for a particular programming language, one that is widely used among developers
working in that language.

   The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other than the
work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of packaging a Major
Component, but which is not part of that Major Component, and (b) serves only to
enable use of the work with that Major Component, or to implement a Standard
Interface for which an implementation is available to the public in source code
form. A "Major Component", in this context, means a major essential component
(kernel, window system, and so on) of the specific operating system (if any) on
which the executable work runs, or a compiler used to produce the work, or an
object code interpreter used to run it.

   The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all the
source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable work) run the
object code and to modify the work, including scripts to control those
activities. However, it does not include the work's System Libraries, or
general-purpose tools or generally available free programs which are used
unmodified in performing those activities but which are not part of the work.
For example, Corresponding Source includes interface definition files associated
with source files for the work, and the source code for shared libraries and
dynamically linked subprograms that the work is specifically designed to
require, such as by intimate data communication or control flow between those
subprograms and other parts of the work.

   The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users can regenerate
automatically from other parts of the Corresponding Source.

   The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that same work.

   2. Basic Permissions.

   All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of copyright
on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated conditions are met. This
License explicitly affirms your unlimited permission to run the unmodified
Program. The output from running a covered work is covered by this License only
if the output, given its content, constitutes a covered work. This License
acknowledges your rights of fair use or other equivalent, as provided by
copyright law.

   You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey, without
conditions so long as your license otherwise remains in force. You may convey
covered works to others for the sole purpose of having them make modifications
exclusively for you, or provide you with facilities for running those works,
provided that you comply with the terms of this License in conveying all
material for which you do not control copyright. Those thus making or running
the covered works for you must do so exclusively on your behalf, under your
direction and control, on terms that prohibit them from making any copies of
your copyrighted material outside their relationship with you.

   Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under the
conditions stated below. Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10 makes it
unnecessary.

   3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

   No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological measure
under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article 11 of the WIPO
copyright treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or similar laws prohibiting or
restricting circumvention of such measures.

   When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention is
effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to the covered
work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or modification of the
work as a means of enforcing, against the work's users, your or third parties'
legal rights to forbid circumvention of technological measures.

   4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.

   You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you receive
it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on
each copy an appropriate copyright notice; keep intact all notices stating that
this License and any non-permissive terms added in accord with section 7 apply
to the code; keep intact all notices of the absence of any warranty; and give
all recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.

   You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey, and you
may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

   5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

   You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to produce
it from the Program, in the form of source code under the terms of section 4,
provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

      a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified it, and
giving a relevant date.

      b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released under
this License and any conditions added under section 7. This requirement modifies
the requirement in section 4 to "keep intact all notices".

      c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to
anyone who comes into possession of a copy. This License will therefore apply,
along with any applicable section 7 additional terms, to the whole of the work,
and all its parts, regardless of how they are packaged. This License gives no
permission to license the work in any other way, but it does not invalidate such
permission if you have separately received it.

      d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has interactive interfaces
that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your work need not make them do
so.

   A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent works,
which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work, and which are not
combined with it such as to form a larger program, in or on a volume of a
storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the compilation and
its resulting copyright are not used to limit the access or legal rights of the
compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit. Inclusion of a
covered work in an aggregate does not cause this License to apply to the other
parts of the aggregate.

   6. Conveying Non-Source Forms.

   You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms of sections
4 and 5, provided that you also convey the machine-readable Corresponding Source
under the terms of this License, in one of these ways:

      a) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by the Corresponding
Source fixed on a durable physical medium customarily used for software
interchange.

      b) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by a written offer,
valid for at least three years and valid for as long as you offer spare parts or
customer support for that product model, to give anyone who possesses the object
code either (1) a copy of the Corresponding Source for all the software in the
product that is covered by this License, on a durable physical medium
customarily used for software interchange, for a price no more than your
reasonable cost of physically performing this conveying of source, or (2) access
to copy the Corresponding Source from a network server at no charge.

      c) Convey individual copies of the object code with a copy of the written
offer to provide the Corresponding Source. This alternative is allowed only
occasionally and noncommercially, and only if you received the object code with
such an offer, in accord with subsection 6b.

      d) Convey the object code by offering access from a designated place
(gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the Corresponding
Source in the same way through the same place at no further charge. You need not
require recipients to copy the Corresponding Source along with the object code.
If the place to copy the object code is a network server, the Corresponding
Source may be on a different server (operated by you or a third party) that
supports equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain clear directions
next to the object code saying where to find the Corresponding Source.
Regardless of what server hosts the Corresponding Source, you remain obligated
to ensure that it is available for as long as needed to satisfy these
requirements.

      e) Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission, provided you
inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding Source of the work
are being offered to the general public at no charge under subsection 6d.

   A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is excluded from
the Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be included in conveying
the object code work.

   A "User Product" is either (1) a "consumer product", which means any tangible
personal property which is normally used for personal, family, or household
purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold for incorporation into a dwelling. In
determining whether a product is a consumer product, doubtful cases shall be
resolved in favor of coverage. For a particular product received by a particular
user, "normally used" refers to a typical or common use of that class of
product, regardless of the status of the particular user or of the way in which
the particular user actually uses, or expects or is expected to use, the
product. A product is a consumer product regardless of whether the product has
substantial commercial, industrial or non-consumer uses, unless such uses
represent the only significant mode of use of the product.

   "Installation Information" for a User Product means any methods, procedures,
authorization keys, or other information required to install and execute
modified versions of a covered work in that User Product from a modified version
of its Corresponding Source. The information must suffice to ensure that the
continued functioning of the modified object code is in no case prevented or
interfered with solely because modification has been made.

   If you convey an object code work under this section in, or with, or
specifically for use in, a User Product, and the conveying occurs as part of a
transaction in which the right of possession and use of the User Product is
transferred to the recipient in perpetuity or for a fixed term (regardless of
how the transaction is characterized), the Corresponding Source conveyed under
this section must be accompanied by the Installation Information. But this
requirement does not apply if neither you nor any third party retains the
ability to install modified object code on the User Product (for example, the
work has been installed in ROM).

   The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or updates for a
work that has been modified or installed by the recipient, or for the User
Product in which it has been modified or installed. Access to a network may be
denied when the modification itself materially and adversely affects the
operation of the network or violates the rules and protocols for communication
across the network.

   Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information provided, in
accord with this section must be in a format that is publicly documented (and
with an implementation available to the public in source code form), and must
require no special password or key for unpacking, reading or copying.

   7. Additional Terms.

   "Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this License
by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions. Additional permissions
that are applicable to the entire Program shall be treated as though they were
included in this License, to the extent that they are valid under applicable
law. If additional permissions apply only to part of the Program, that part may
be used separately under those permissions, but the entire Program remains
governed by this License without regard to the additional permissions.

   When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option remove any
additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of it. (Additional
permissions may be written to require their own removal in certain cases when
you modify the work.) You may place additional permissions on material, added by
you to a covered work, for which you have or can give appropriate copyright
permission.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you add to
a covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders of that
material) supplement the terms of this License with terms:

      a) Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the terms
of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or

      b) Requiring preservation of specified reasonable legal notices or author
attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal Notices displayed by
works containing it; or

      c) Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in reasonable ways
as different from the original version; or

      d) Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names of licensors or
authors of the material; or

      e) Declining to grant rights under trademark law for use of some trade
names, trademarks, or service marks; or

      f) Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that material by
anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of it) with contractual
assumptions of liability to the recipient, for any liability that these
contractual assumptions directly impose on those licensors and authors.

   All other non-permissive additional terms are considered "further
restrictions" within the meaning of section 10. If the Program as you received
it, or any part of it, contains a notice stating that it is governed by this
License along with a term that is a further restriction, you may remove that
term. If a license document contains a further restriction but permits
relicensing or conveying under this License, you may add to a covered work
material governed by the terms of that license document, provided that the
further restriction does not survive such relicensing or conveying.

   If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you must
place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the additional terms that
apply to those files, or a notice indicating where to find the applicable terms.

   Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the form of
a separately written license, or stated as exceptions; the above requirements
apply either way.

   8. Termination.

   You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly provided
under this License. Any attempt otherwise to propagate or modify it is void, and
will automatically terminate your rights under this License (including any
patent licenses granted under the third paragraph of section 11).

   However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from a
particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until
the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license, and (b)
permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation by
some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.

   Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated
permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some
reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of violation
of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you cure the
violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.

   Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the licenses
of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this License. If
your rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated, you do not
qualify to receive new licenses for the same material under section 10.

   9. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.

   You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or run a copy
of the Program. Ancillary propagation of a covered work occurring solely as a
consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission to receive a copy likewise does
not require acceptance. However, nothing other than this License grants you
permission to propagate or modify any covered work. These actions infringe
copyright if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or
propagating a covered work, you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so.

   10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

   Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically receives a
license from the original licensors, to run, modify and propagate that work,
subject to this License. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by
third parties with this License.

   An "entity transaction" is a transaction transferring control of an
organization, or substantially all assets of one, or subdividing an
organization, or merging organizations. If propagation of a covered work results
from an entity transaction, each party to that transaction who receives a copy
of the work also receives whatever licenses to the work the party's predecessor
in interest had or could give under the previous paragraph, plus a right to
possession of the Corresponding Source of the work from the predecessor in
interest, if the predecessor has it or can get it with reasonable efforts.

   You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the rights
granted or affirmed under this License. For example, you may not impose a
license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of rights granted under this
License, and you may not initiate litigation (including a cross-claim or
counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that any patent claim is infringed by
making, using, selling, offering for sale, or importing the Program or any
portion of it.

   11. Patents.

   A "contributor" is a copyright holder who authorizes use under this License
of the Program or a work on which the Program is based. The work thus licensed
is called the contributor's "contributor version".

   A contributor's "essential patent claims" are all patent claims owned or
controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or hereafter acquired,
that would be infringed by some manner, permitted by this License, of making,
using, or selling its contributor version, but do not include claims that would
be infringed only as a consequence of further modification of the contributor
version. For purposes of this definition, "control" includes the right to grant
patent sublicenses in a manner consistent with the requirements of this License.

   Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent
license under the contributor's essential patent claims, to make, use, sell,
offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and propagate the contents of
its contributor version.

   In the following three paragraphs, a "patent license" is any express
agreement or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a patent (such as
an express permission to practice a patent or covenant not to sue for patent
infringement). To "grant" such a patent license to a party means to make such an
agreement or commitment not to enforce a patent against the party.

   If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license, and the
Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone to copy, free of
charge and under the terms of this License, through a publicly available network
server or other readily accessible means, then you must either (1) cause the
Corresponding Source to be so available, or (2) arrange to deprive yourself of
the benefit of the patent license for this particular work, or (3) arrange, in a
manner consistent with the requirements of this License, to extend the patent
license to downstream recipients. "Knowingly relying" means you have actual
knowledge that, but for the patent license, your conveying the covered work in a
country, or your recipient's use of the covered work in a country, would
infringe one or more identifiable patents in that country that you have reason
to believe are valid.

   If, pursuant to or in connection with a single transaction or arrangement,
you convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of, a covered work, and grant a
patent license to some of the parties receiving the covered work authorizing
them to use, propagate, modify or convey a specific copy of the covered work,
then the patent license you grant is automatically extended to all recipients of
the covered work and works based on it.

   A patent license is "discriminatory" if it does not include within the scope
of its coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is conditioned on the non-
exercise of one or more of the rights that are specifically granted under this
License. You may not convey a covered work if you are a party to an arrangement
with a third party that is in the business of distributing software, under which
you make payment to the third party based on the extent of your activity of
conveying the work, and under which the third party grants, to any of the
parties who would receive the covered work from you, a discriminatory patent
license (a) in connection with copies of the covered work conveyed by you (or
copies made from those copies), or (b) primarily for and in connection with
specific products or compilations that contain the covered work, unless you
entered into that arrangement, or that patent license was granted, prior to 28
March 2007.

   Nothing in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting any
implied license or other defenses to infringement that may otherwise be
available to you under applicable patent law.

   12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom.

   If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse
you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot convey a covered work so
as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other
pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not convey it at all. For
example, if you agree to terms that obligate you to collect a royalty for
further conveying from those to whom you convey the Program, the only way you
could satisfy both those terms and this License would be to refrain entirely
from conveying the Program.

   13. Use with the GNU Affero General Public License.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have permission to
link or combine any covered work with a work licensed under version 3 of the GNU
Affero General Public License into a single combined work, and to convey the
resulting work. The terms of this License will continue to apply to the part
which is the covered work, but the special requirements of the GNU Affero
General Public License, section 13, concerning interaction through a network
will apply to the combination as such.

   14. Revised Versions of this License.

   The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
GNU General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU General Public License "or
any later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that numbered version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number
of the GNU General Public License, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

   If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of the
GNU General Public License can be used, that proxy's public statement of
acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you to choose that version for
the Program.

   Later license versions may give you additional or different permissions.
However, no additional obligations are imposed on any author or copyright holder
as a result of your choosing to follow a later version.

   15. Disclaimer of Warranty.

   THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER
PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE
DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   16. Limitation of Liability.

   IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS THE PROGRAM
AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

   17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.

   If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided above
cannot be given local legal effect according to their terms, reviewing courts
shall apply local law that most closely approximates an absolute waiver of all
civil liability in connection with the Program, unless a warranty or assumption
of liability accompanies a copy of the Program in return for a fee.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively state the exclusion of
warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a pointer
to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program does terminal interaction, make it output a short notice like
this when it starts in an interactive mode:

<program> Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.

This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain
conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, your program's commands might be
different; for a GUI interface, you would use an "about box".

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or school, if
any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. For more
information on this, and how to apply and follow the GNU GPL, see
<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

The GNU General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs. If your program is a subroutine library, you may consider
it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the library. If
this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General Public License instead
of this License. But first, please read <https://www.gnu.org/ licenses /why-not-
lgpl.html>.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.1+

GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2.1, February 1999

Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL. It also counts as the
successor of the GNU Library Public License, version 2, hence the version number
2.1.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some specially
designated software packages--typically libraries--of the Free Software
Foundation and other authors who decide to use it. You can use it too, but we
suggest you first think carefully about whether this license or the ordinary
General Public License is the better strategy to use in any particular case,
based on the explanations below.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use, not price.
Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom
to distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish);
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it; that you can change
the software and use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you are
informed that you can do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid distributors to
deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these rights. These
restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute
copies of the library or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link other code
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients, so
that they can relink them with the library after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the library, and
(2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that there is no
warranty for the free library. Also, if the library is modified by someone else
and passed on, the recipients should know that what they have is not the
original version, so that the original author's reputation will not be affected
by problems that might be introduced by others.

Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of any free
program. We wish to make sure that a company cannot effectively restrict the
users of a free program by obtaining a restrictive license from a patent holder.
Therefore, we insist that any patent license obtained for a version of the
library must be consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this
license.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License. This license, the GNU Lesser General Public License,
applies to certain designated libraries, and is quite different from the
ordinary General Public License. We use this license for certain libraries in
order to permit linking those libraries into non-free programs.

When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using a shared
library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a combined work, a
derivative of the original library. The ordinary General Public License
therefore permits such linking only if the entire combination fits its criteria
of freedom. The Lesser General Public License permits more lax criteria for
linking other code with the library.

We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it does Less to
protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General Public License. It also
provides other free software developers Less of an advantage over competing non-
free programs. These disadvantages are the reason we use the ordinary General
Public License for many libraries. However, the Lesser license provides
advantages in certain special circumstances.

For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to encourage the
widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes a de-facto
standard. To achieve this, non-free programs must be allowed to use the library.
A more frequent case is that a free library does the same job as widely used
non-free libraries. In this case, there is little to gain by limiting the free
library to free software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free programs
enables a greater number of people to use a large body of free software. For
example, permission to use the GNU C Library in non-free programs enables many
more people to use the whole GNU operating system, as well as its variant, the
GNU/Linux operating system.

Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the users'
freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is linked with the
Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run that program using a modified
version of the Library.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, whereas the latter must be combined with the library in order
to run.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other program
which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party
saying it may be distributed under the terms of this Lesser General Public
License (also called "this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so
as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

   The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has
been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either
the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

   "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using
the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if
its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of
the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

      b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

      d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table
of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other
than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a
good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply
such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part
of its purpose remains meaningful.

   (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose
that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore,
Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by
this function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the
square root function must still compute square roots.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

   Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy,
so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

   This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library
into a program that is not a library.

   4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

   If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

   5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but
is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is
called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a
derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this
License.

   However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

   When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

   If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

   Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

   6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or link a
"work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing
portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice,
provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own
use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

   You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

      a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)

      b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the Library. A
suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a copy of the library
already present on the user's computer system, rather than copying library
functions into the executable, and (2) will operate properly with a modified
version of the library, if the user installs one, as long as the modified
version is interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

      c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above,
for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

      d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.

      e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

   For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the materials to be distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

   It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

   7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not
covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two
things:

      a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be
distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

      b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part
of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

   8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

   10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these
terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for
enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.

   11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License along
with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in

the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written

by James Random Hacker.

< signature of Ty Coon > , 1 April 1990

Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.0+

GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the library GPL. It is numbered 2 because
it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some specially
designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any other libraries whose
authors decide to use it. You can use it for your libraries, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
library, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link a program
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients so
that they can relink them with the library, after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright the library,
and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain that everyone
understands that there is no warranty for this free library. If the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to know that what
they have is not the original version, so that any problems introduced by others
will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that companies distributing free software will individually
obtain patent licenses, thus in effect transforming the program into proprietary
software. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any patent must be
licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License, which was designed for utility programs. This license,
the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries.
This license is quite different from the ordinary one; be sure to read it in
full, and don't assume that anything in it is the same as in the ordinary
license.

The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that they
blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a program
and simply using it. Linking a program with a library, without changing the
library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is analogous to running
a utility program or application program. However, in a textual and legal sense,
the linked executable is a combined work, a derivative of the original library,
and the ordinary General Public License treats it as such.

Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General Public License
for libraries did not effectively promote software sharing, because most
developers did not use the libraries. We concluded that weaker conditions might
promote sharing better.

However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the users of
those programs of all benefit from the free status of the libraries themselves.
This Library General Public License is intended to permit developers of non-free
programs to use free libraries, while preserving your freedom as a user of such
programs to change the free libraries that are incorporated in them. (We have
not seen how to achieve this as regards changes in header files, but we have
achieved it as regards changes in the actual functions of the Library.) The hope
is that this will lead to faster development of free libraries.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, while the latter only works together with the library.

Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary General
Public License rather than by this special one.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License Agreement applies to any software library which contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be
distributed under the terms of this Library General Public License (also called
"this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so
as to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

   The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has
been distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either
the Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

   "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using
the Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if
its contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of
the Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously
and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

      b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

      d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table
of data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other
than as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a
good faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply
such function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part
of its purpose remains meaningful.

      (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a
purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore,
Subsection 2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by
this function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the
square root function must still compute square roots.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with
the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

   Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy,
so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

   This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library
into a program that is not a library.

   4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

   If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

   5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but
is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is
called a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a
derivative work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this
License.

   However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

   When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

   If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

   Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

   6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or link a
"work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing
portions of the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice,
provided that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own
use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

   You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

      a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)

      b) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three
years, to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above,
for a charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

      c) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.

      d) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

   For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

   It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

   7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library
side-by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not
covered by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that
the separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other
library facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two
things:

      a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on
the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be
distributed under the terms of the Sections above.

      b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part
of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

   8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

   10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these
terms and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the
recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for
enforcing compliance by third parties to this License.

   11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the Library General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any
version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.

Copyright (C) year name of author

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by the Free
Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Library General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public License along
with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in

the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written

by James Random Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990

Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

LGPL-2.0

GNU LIBRARY GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the library GPL.  It is numbered 2
because it goes with version 2 of the ordinary GPL.]

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public Licenses are intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users.

This license, the Library General Public License, applies to some specially
designated Free Software Foundation software, and to any other libraries whose
authors decide to use it. You can use it for your libraries, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
library, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave you. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. If you link a program
with the library, you must provide complete object files to the recipients so
that they can relink them with the library, after making changes to the library
and recompiling it. And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

Our method of protecting your rights has two steps: (1) copyright the library,
and (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the library.

Also, for each distributor's protection, we want to make certain that everyone
understands that there is no warranty for this free library. If the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to know that what
they have is not the original version, so that any problems introduced by others
will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that companies distributing free software will individually
obtain patent licenses, thus in effect transforming the program into proprietary
software. To prevent this, we have made it clear that any patent must be
licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the ordinary GNU
General Public License, which was designed for utility programs. This license,
the GNU Library General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries.
This license is quite different from the ordinary one; be sure to read it in
full, and don't assume that anything in it is the same as in the ordinary
license.

The reason we have a separate public license for some libraries is that they
blur the distinction we usually make between modifying or adding to a program
and simply using it. Linking a program with a library, without changing the
library, is in some sense simply using the library, and is analogous to running
a utility program or application program. However, in a textual and legal sense,
the linked executable is a combined work, a derivative of the original library,
and the ordinary General Public License treats it as such.

Because of this blurred distinction, using the ordinary General Public License
for libraries did not effectively promote software sharing, because most
developers did not use the libraries. We concluded that weaker conditions might
promote sharing better.

However, unrestricted linking of non-free programs would deprive the users of
those programs of all benefit from the free status of the libraries themselves.
This Library General Public License is intended to permit developers of non-free
programs to use free libraries, while preserving your freedom as a user of such
programs to change the free libraries that are incorporated in them. (We have
not seen how to achieve this as regards changes in header files, but we have
achieved it as regards changes in the actual functions of the Library.) The hope
is that this will lead to faster development of free libraries.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow. Pay close attention to the difference between a "work based on the
library" and a "work that uses the library". The former contains code derived
from the library, while the latter only works together with the library.

Note that it is possible for a library to be covered by the ordinary General
Public License rather than by this special one.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

0. This License Agreement applies to any software library which contains a
notice placed by the copyright holder or other authorized party saying it may be
distributed under the terms of this Library General Public License (also called
"this License"). Each licensee is addressed as "you".

A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data prepared so as
to be conveniently linked with application programs (which use some of those
functions and data) to form executables.

The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work which has been
distributed under these terms. A "work based on the Library" means either the
Library or any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work
containing the Library or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
and/or translated straightforwardly into another language. (Hereinafter,
translation is included without limitation in the term "modification".)

"Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For a library, complete source code means all the source
code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface definition
files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation of the
library.

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered by
this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running a program using the
Library is not restricted, and output from such a program is covered only if its
contents constitute a work based on the Library (independent of the use of the
Library in a tool for writing it). Whether that is true depends on what the
Library does and what the program that uses the Library does.

1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's complete source
code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along
with the Library.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may at
your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion of it, thus
forming a work based on the Library, and copy and distribute such modifications
or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also meet all of
these conditions:

     a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

     b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

     c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no charge to all
third parties under the terms of this License.

     d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a table of
data to be supplied by an application program that uses the facility, other than
as an argument passed when the facility is invoked, then you must make a good
faith effort to ensure that, in the event an application does not supply such
function or table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
its purpose remains meaningful.

(For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has a purpose that
is entirely well-defined independent of the application. Therefore, Subsection
2d requires that any application-supplied function or table used by this
function must be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Library, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library with the
Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public License
instead of this License to a given copy of the Library. To do this, you must
alter all the notices that refer to this License, so that they refer to the
ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2, instead of to this License. (If
a newer version than version 2 of the ordinary GNU General Public License has
appeared, then you can specify that version instead if you wish.) Do not make
any other change in these notices.

Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for that copy, so
the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all subsequent copies and
derivative works made from that copy.

This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of the Library into
a program that is not a library.

4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1
and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete corresponding
machine-readable source code, which must be distributed under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange.

If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source code from
the same place satisfies the requirement to distribute the source code, even
though third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object
code.

5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the Library, but is
designed to work with the Library by being compiled or linked with it, is called
a "work that uses the Library". Such a work, in isolation, is not a derivative
work of the Library, and therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library creates an
executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it contains portions of
the Library), rather than a "work that uses the library". The executable is
therefore covered by this License. Section 6 states terms for distribution of
such executables.

When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file that is
part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a derivative work of
the Library even though the source code is not. Whether this is true is
especially significant if the work can be linked without the Library, or if the
work is itself a library. The threshold for this to be true is not precisely
defined by law.

If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data structure layouts
and accessors, and small macros and small inline functions (ten lines or less in
length), then the use of the object file is unrestricted, regardless of whether
it is legally a derivative work. (Executables containing this object code plus
portions of the Library will still fall under Section 6.)

Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may distribute the
object code for the work under the terms of Section 6. Any executables
containing that work also fall under Section 6, whether or not they are linked
directly with the Library itself.

6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also compile or link a "work
that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a work containing portions of
the Library, and distribute that work under terms of your choice, provided that
the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the Library is
used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by this License. You
must supply a copy of this License. If the work during execution displays
copyright notices, you must include the copyright notice for the Library among
them, as well as a reference directing the user to the copy of this License.
Also, you must do one of these things:

     a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding machine-readable
source code for the Library including whatever changes were used in the work
(which must be distributed under Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an
executable linked with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work
that uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the user can
modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified executable containing
the modified Library. (It is understood that the user who changes the contents
of definitions files in the Library will not necessarily be able to recompile
the application to use the modified definitions.)

     b) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at least three years,
to give the same user the materials specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a
charge no more than the cost of performing this distribution.

     c) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy from a
designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above specified materials
from the same place.

     d) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these materials or
that you have already sent this user a copy.

For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the Library" must
include any data and utility programs needed for reproducing the executable from
it. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed need not
include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary form)
with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system
on which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies the
executable.

It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license restrictions of
other proprietary libraries that do not normally accompany the operating system.
Such a contradiction means you cannot use both them and the Library together in
an executable that you distribute.

7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the Library side-
by-side in a single library together with other library facilities not covered
by this License, and distribute such a combined library, provided that the
separate distribution of the work based on the Library and of the other library
facilities is otherwise permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

     a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based on the
Library, uncombined with any other library facilities. This must be distributed
under the terms of the Sections above.

     b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact that part of
it is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the accompanying
uncombined form of the same work.

8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library
except as expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy,
modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute the Library is void, and will
automatically terminate your rights under this License. However, parties who
have received copies, or rights, from you under this License will not have their
licenses terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Library
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Library (or any
work based on the Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Library or works based on it.

10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the Library),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library subject to these terms and
conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients'
exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing
compliance by third parties to this License.

11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Library at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Library by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply, and
the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents or
other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Library under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
Library General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be
similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address
new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Library specifies
a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later version",
you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of that version
or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation. If the
Library does not specify a license version number, you may choose any version
ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these, write to the author
to ask for permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software
Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions
for this. Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free
status of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and
reuse of software generally.

NO WARRANTY

15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE
LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, we recommend making it free software that everyone can
redistribute and change. You can do so by permitting redistribution under these
terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the ordinary General Public
License).

To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library. It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the
exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line
and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

     one line to give the library's name and an idea of what it does.
     Copyright (C) year  name of author

     This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option)
any later version.

     This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Library General Public License for more
details.

     You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public License
along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51
Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in
the library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written
by James Random Hacker.

signature of Ty Coon, 1 April 1990
Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-3.0+

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 3, 29 June 2007

Copyright © 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <https://fsf.org/>

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for software and
other kinds of works.

The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed to take
away your freedom to share and change the works. By contrast, the GNU General
Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change all
versions of a program--to make sure it remains free software for all its users.
We, the Free Software Foundation, use the GNU General Public License for most of
our software; it applies also to any other work released this way by its
authors. You can apply it to your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for them if you wish), that you
receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the
software or use pieces of it in new free programs, and that you know you can do
these things.

To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you these rights
or asking you to surrender the rights. Therefore, you have certain
responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it:
responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same freedoms that you received. You
must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must
show them these terms so they know their rights.

Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps: (1) assert
copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License giving you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains that there
is no warranty for this free software. For both users' and authors' sake, the
GPL requires that modified versions be marked as changed, so that their problems
will not be attributed erroneously to authors of previous versions.

Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run modified
versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer can do so. This
is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of protecting users' freedom to
change the software. The systematic pattern of such abuse occurs in the area of
products for individuals to use, which is precisely where it is most
unacceptable. Therefore, we have designed this version of the GPL to prohibit
the practice for those products. If such problems arise substantially in other
domains, we stand ready to extend this provision to those domains in future
versions of the GPL, as needed to protect the freedom of users.

Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents. States
should not allow patents to restrict development and use of software on general-
purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to avoid the special danger
that patents applied to a free program could make it effectively proprietary. To
prevent this, the GPL assures that patents cannot be used to render the program
non-free.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   0. Definitions.

   "This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

   "Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of
works, such as semiconductor masks.

   "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this License.
Each licensee is addressed as "you". "Licensees" and "recipients" may be
individuals or organizations.

   To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work in a
fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an exact copy.
The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the earlier work or a work
"based on" the earlier work.

   A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based on the
Program.

   To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without permission,
would make you directly or secondarily liable for infringement under applicable
copyright law, except executing it on a computer or modifying a private copy.
Propagation includes copying, distribution (with or without modification),
making available to the public, and in some countries other activities as well.

   To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other parties
to make or receive copies. Mere interaction with a user through a computer
network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

   An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices" to the
extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible feature that (1)
displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2) tells the user that there is
no warranty for the work (except to the extent that warranties are provided),
that licensees may convey the work under this License, and how to view a copy of
this License. If the interface presents a list of user commands or options, such
as a menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion.

   1. Source Code.

   The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. "Object code" means any non-source form of a work.

   A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official standard
defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of interfaces specified
for a particular programming language, one that is widely used among developers
working in that language.

   The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other than the
work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of packaging a Major
Component, but which is not part of that Major Component, and (b) serves only to
enable use of the work with that Major Component, or to implement a Standard
Interface for which an implementation is available to the public in source code
form. A "Major Component", in this context, means a major essential component
(kernel, window system, and so on) of the specific operating system (if any) on
which the executable work runs, or a compiler used to produce the work, or an
object code interpreter used to run it.

   The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all the
source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable work) run the
object code and to modify the work, including scripts to control those
activities. However, it does not include the work's System Libraries, or
general-purpose tools or generally available free programs which are used
unmodified in performing those activities but which are not part of the work.
For example, Corresponding Source includes interface definition files associated
with source files for the work, and the source code for shared libraries and
dynamically linked subprograms that the work is specifically designed to
require, such as by intimate data communication or control flow between those
subprograms and other parts of the work.

   The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users can regenerate
automatically from other parts of the Corresponding Source.

   The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that same work.

   2. Basic Permissions.

   All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of copyright
on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated conditions are met. This
License explicitly affirms your unlimited permission to run the unmodified
Program. The output from running a covered work is covered by this License only
if the output, given its content, constitutes a covered work. This License
acknowledges your rights of fair use or other equivalent, as provided by
copyright law.

   You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not convey, without
conditions so long as your license otherwise remains in force. You may convey
covered works to others for the sole purpose of having them make modifications
exclusively for you, or provide you with facilities for running those works,
provided that you comply with the terms of this License in conveying all
material for which you do not control copyright. Those thus making or running
the covered works for you must do so exclusively on your behalf, under your
direction and control, on terms that prohibit them from making any copies of
your copyrighted material outside their relationship with you.

   Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under the
conditions stated below. Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10 makes it
unnecessary.

   3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

   No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological measure
under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article 11 of the WIPO
copyright treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or similar laws prohibiting or
restricting circumvention of such measures.

   When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention is
effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to the covered
work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or modification of the
work as a means of enforcing, against the work's users, your or third parties'
legal rights to forbid circumvention of technological measures.

   4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.

   You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you receive
it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and appropriately publish on
each copy an appropriate copyright notice; keep intact all notices stating that
this License and any non-permissive terms added in accord with section 7 apply
to the code; keep intact all notices of the absence of any warranty; and give
all recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.

   You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey, and you
may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

   5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

   You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to produce
it from the Program, in the form of source code under the terms of section 4,
provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

      a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified it, and
giving a relevant date.

      b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is released under
this License and any conditions added under section 7. This requirement modifies
the requirement in section 4 to "keep intact all notices".

      c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this License to
anyone who comes into possession of a copy. This License will therefore apply,
along with any applicable section 7 additional terms, to the whole of the work,
and all its parts, regardless of how they are packaged. This License gives no
permission to license the work in any other way, but it does not invalidate such
permission if you have separately received it.

      d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has interactive interfaces
that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your work need not make them do
so.

   A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent works,
which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work, and which are not
combined with it such as to form a larger program, in or on a volume of a
storage or distribution medium, is called an "aggregate" if the compilation and
its resulting copyright are not used to limit the access or legal rights of the
compilation's users beyond what the individual works permit. Inclusion of a
covered work in an aggregate does not cause this License to apply to the other
parts of the aggregate.

   6. Conveying Non-Source Forms.

   You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms of sections
4 and 5, provided that you also convey the machine-readable Corresponding Source
under the terms of this License, in one of these ways:

      a) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by the Corresponding
Source fixed on a durable physical medium customarily used for software
interchange.

      b) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
(including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by a written offer,
valid for at least three years and valid for as long as you offer spare parts or
customer support for that product model, to give anyone who possesses the object
code either (1) a copy of the Corresponding Source for all the software in the
product that is covered by this License, on a durable physical medium
customarily used for software interchange, for a price no more than your
reasonable cost of physically performing this conveying of source, or (2) access
to copy the Corresponding Source from a network server at no charge.

      c) Convey individual copies of the object code with a copy of the written
offer to provide the Corresponding Source. This alternative is allowed only
occasionally and noncommercially, and only if you received the object code with
such an offer, in accord with subsection 6b.

      d) Convey the object code by offering access from a designated place
(gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the Corresponding
Source in the same way through the same place at no further charge. You need not
require recipients to copy the Corresponding Source along with the object code.
If the place to copy the object code is a network server, the Corresponding
Source may be on a different server (operated by you or a third party) that
supports equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain clear directions
next to the object code saying where to find the Corresponding Source.
Regardless of what server hosts the Corresponding Source, you remain obligated
to ensure that it is available for as long as needed to satisfy these
requirements.

      e) Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission, provided you
inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding Source of the work
are being offered to the general public at no charge under subsection 6d.

   A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is excluded from
the Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be included in conveying
the object code work.

   A "User Product" is either (1) a "consumer product", which means any tangible
personal property which is normally used for personal, family, or household
purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold for incorporation into a dwelling. In
determining whether a product is a consumer product, doubtful cases shall be
resolved in favor of coverage. For a particular product received by a particular
user, "normally used" refers to a typical or common use of that class of
product, regardless of the status of the particular user or of the way in which
the particular user actually uses, or expects or is expected to use, the
product. A product is a consumer product regardless of whether the product has
substantial commercial, industrial or non-consumer uses, unless such uses
represent the only significant mode of use of the product.

   "Installation Information" for a User Product means any methods, procedures,
authorization keys, or other information required to install and execute
modified versions of a covered work in that User Product from a modified version
of its Corresponding Source. The information must suffice to ensure that the
continued functioning of the modified object code is in no case prevented or
interfered with solely because modification has been made.

   If you convey an object code work under this section in, or with, or
specifically for use in, a User Product, and the conveying occurs as part of a
transaction in which the right of possession and use of the User Product is
transferred to the recipient in perpetuity or for a fixed term (regardless of
how the transaction is characterized), the Corresponding Source conveyed under
this section must be accompanied by the Installation Information. But this
requirement does not apply if neither you nor any third party retains the
ability to install modified object code on the User Product (for example, the
work has been installed in ROM).

   The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or updates for a
work that has been modified or installed by the recipient, or for the User
Product in which it has been modified or installed. Access to a network may be
denied when the modification itself materially and adversely affects the
operation of the network or violates the rules and protocols for communication
across the network.

   Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information provided, in
accord with this section must be in a format that is publicly documented (and
with an implementation available to the public in source code form), and must
require no special password or key for unpacking, reading or copying.

   7. Additional Terms.

   "Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this License
by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions. Additional permissions
that are applicable to the entire Program shall be treated as though they were
included in this License, to the extent that they are valid under applicable
law. If additional permissions apply only to part of the Program, that part may
be used separately under those permissions, but the entire Program remains
governed by this License without regard to the additional permissions.

   When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option remove any
additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of it. (Additional
permissions may be written to require their own removal in certain cases when
you modify the work.) You may place additional permissions on material, added by
you to a covered work, for which you have or can give appropriate copyright
permission.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you add to
a covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders of that
material) supplement the terms of this License with terms:

      a) Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the terms
of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or

      b) Requiring preservation of specified reasonable legal notices or author
attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal Notices displayed by
works containing it; or

      c) Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in reasonable ways
as different from the original version; or

      d) Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names of licensors or
authors of the material; or

      e) Declining to grant rights under trademark law for use of some trade
names, trademarks, or service marks; or

      f) Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that material by
anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of it) with contractual
assumptions of liability to the recipient, for any liability that these
contractual assumptions directly impose on those licensors and authors.

   All other non-permissive additional terms are considered "further
restrictions" within the meaning of section 10. If the Program as you received
it, or any part of it, contains a notice stating that it is governed by this
License along with a term that is a further restriction, you may remove that
term. If a license document contains a further restriction but permits
relicensing or conveying under this License, you may add to a covered work
material governed by the terms of that license document, provided that the
further restriction does not survive such relicensing or conveying.

   If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you must
place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the additional terms that
apply to those files, or a notice indicating where to find the applicable terms.

   Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the form of
a separately written license, or stated as exceptions; the above requirements
apply either way.

   8. Termination.

   You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly provided
under this License. Any attempt otherwise to propagate or modify it is void, and
will automatically terminate your rights under this License (including any
patent licenses granted under the third paragraph of section 11).

   However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your license from a
particular copyright holder is reinstated (a) provisionally, unless and until
the copyright holder explicitly and finally terminates your license, and (b)
permanently, if the copyright holder fails to notify you of the violation by
some reasonable means prior to 60 days after the cessation.

   Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated
permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the violation by some
reasonable means, this is the first time you have received notice of violation
of this License (for any work) from that copyright holder, and you cure the
violation prior to 30 days after your receipt of the notice.

   Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the licenses
of parties who have received copies or rights from you under this License. If
your rights have been terminated and not permanently reinstated, you do not
qualify to receive new licenses for the same material under section 10.

   9. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.

   You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or run a copy
of the Program. Ancillary propagation of a covered work occurring solely as a
consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission to receive a copy likewise does
not require acceptance. However, nothing other than this License grants you
permission to propagate or modify any covered work. These actions infringe
copyright if you do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or
propagating a covered work, you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so.

   10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

   Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically receives a
license from the original licensors, to run, modify and propagate that work,
subject to this License. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by
third parties with this License.

   An "entity transaction" is a transaction transferring control of an
organization, or substantially all assets of one, or subdividing an
organization, or merging organizations. If propagation of a covered work results
from an entity transaction, each party to that transaction who receives a copy
of the work also receives whatever licenses to the work the party's predecessor
in interest had or could give under the previous paragraph, plus a right to
possession of the Corresponding Source of the work from the predecessor in
interest, if the predecessor has it or can get it with reasonable efforts.

   You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the rights
granted or affirmed under this License. For example, you may not impose a
license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of rights granted under this
License, and you may not initiate litigation (including a cross-claim or
counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that any patent claim is infringed by
making, using, selling, offering for sale, or importing the Program or any
portion of it.

   11. Patents.

   A "contributor" is a copyright holder who authorizes use under this License
of the Program or a work on which the Program is based. The work thus licensed
is called the contributor's "contributor version".

   A contributor's "essential patent claims" are all patent claims owned or
controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or hereafter acquired,
that would be infringed by some manner, permitted by this License, of making,
using, or selling its contributor version, but do not include claims that would
be infringed only as a consequence of further modification of the contributor
version. For purposes of this definition, "control" includes the right to grant
patent sublicenses in a manner consistent with the requirements of this License.

   Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent
license under the contributor's essential patent claims, to make, use, sell,
offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and propagate the contents of
its contributor version.

   In the following three paragraphs, a "patent license" is any express
agreement or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a patent (such as
an express permission to practice a patent or covenant not to sue for patent
infringement). To "grant" such a patent license to a party means to make such an
agreement or commitment not to enforce a patent against the party.

   If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license, and the
Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone to copy, free of
charge and under the terms of this License, through a publicly available network
server or other readily accessible means, then you must either (1) cause the
Corresponding Source to be so available, or (2) arrange to deprive yourself of
the benefit of the patent license for this particular work, or (3) arrange, in a
manner consistent with the requirements of this License, to extend the patent
license to downstream recipients. "Knowingly relying" means you have actual
knowledge that, but for the patent license, your conveying the covered work in a
country, or your recipient's use of the covered work in a country, would
infringe one or more identifiable patents in that country that you have reason
to believe are valid.

   If, pursuant to or in connection with a single transaction or arrangement,
you convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of, a covered work, and grant a
patent license to some of the parties receiving the covered work authorizing
them to use, propagate, modify or convey a specific copy of the covered work,
then the patent license you grant is automatically extended to all recipients of
the covered work and works based on it.

   A patent license is "discriminatory" if it does not include within the scope
of its coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is conditioned on the non-
exercise of one or more of the rights that are specifically granted under this
License. You may not convey a covered work if you are a party to an arrangement
with a third party that is in the business of distributing software, under which
you make payment to the third party based on the extent of your activity of
conveying the work, and under which the third party grants, to any of the
parties who would receive the covered work from you, a discriminatory patent
license (a) in connection with copies of the covered work conveyed by you (or
copies made from those copies), or (b) primarily for and in connection with
specific products or compilations that contain the covered work, unless you
entered into that arrangement, or that patent license was granted, prior to 28
March 2007.

   Nothing in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting any
implied license or other defenses to infringement that may otherwise be
available to you under applicable patent law.

   12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom.

   If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse
you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot convey a covered work so
as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other
pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not convey it at all. For
example, if you agree to terms that obligate you to collect a royalty for
further conveying from those to whom you convey the Program, the only way you
could satisfy both those terms and this License would be to refrain entirely
from conveying the Program.

   13. Use with the GNU Affero General Public License.

   Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have permission to
link or combine any covered work with a work licensed under version 3 of the GNU
Affero General Public License into a single combined work, and to convey the
resulting work. The terms of this License will continue to apply to the part
which is the covered work, but the special requirements of the GNU Affero
General Public License, section 13, concerning interaction through a network
will apply to the combination as such.

   14. Revised Versions of this License.

   The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of the
GNU General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU General Public License "or
any later version" applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that numbered version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation. If the Program does not specify a version number
of the GNU General Public License, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

   If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide which future versions of the
GNU General Public License can be used, that proxy's public statement of
acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you to choose that version for
the Program.

   Later license versions may give you additional or different permissions.
However, no additional obligations are imposed on any author or copyright holder
as a result of your choosing to follow a later version.

   15. Disclaimer of Warranty.

   THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE
LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER
PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE
QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE
DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   16. Limitation of Liability.

   IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING WILL
ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS THE PROGRAM
AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL,
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY
TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER
PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

   17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.

If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided above cannot
be given local legal effect according to their terms, reviewing courts shall
apply local law that most closely approximates an absolute waiver of all civil
liability in connection with the Program, unless a warranty or assumption of
liability accompanies a copy of the Program in return for a fee.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively state the exclusion of
warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a pointer
to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program does terminal interaction, make it output a short notice like
this when it starts in an interactive mode:

<program> Copyright (C) <year> <name of author>

This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.

This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain
conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, your program's commands might be
different; for a GUI interface, you would use an "about box".

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or school, if
any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. For more
information on this, and how to apply and follow the GNU GPL, see
<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

The GNU General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs. If your program is a subroutine library, you may consider
it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the library. If
this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General Public License instead
of this License. But first, please read <https://www.gnu.org/ licenses /why-not-
lgpl.html>.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-1.0+

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 1, February 1989

Copyright (C) 1989 Free Software Foundation, Inc. 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor,
Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The license agreements of most software companies try to keep users at the mercy
of those companies. By contrast, our General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. The General Public License applies to the
Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors
commit to using it. You can use it for your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price.
Specifically, the General Public License is designed to make sure that you have
the freedom to give away or sell copies of free software, that you receive
source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change the software or
use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can do these
things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of a such a program, whether gratis or for
a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must tell them
their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND
MODIFICATION

   0. This License Agreement applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the
terms of this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such
program or work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or
any work containing the Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with
modifications. Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this General
Public License and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients
of the Program a copy of this General Public License along with the Program. You
may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
and copy and distribute such modifications under the terms of Paragraph 1 above,
provided that you also do the following:

      a) cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating that you
changed the files and the date of any change; and

      b) cause the whole of any work that you distribute or publish, that in
whole or in part contains the Program or any part thereof, either with or
without modifications, to be licensed at no charge to all third parties under
the terms of this General Public License (except that you may choose to grant
warranty protection to some or all third parties, at your option).

      c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the simplest
and most usual way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this General Public
License.

      d) You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   Mere aggregation of another independent work with the Program (or its
derivative) on a volume of a storage or distribution medium does not bring the
other work under the scope of these terms.

   3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a portion or derivative of it,
under Paragraph 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Paragraphs 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

      a) accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

      b) accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party free (except for a nominal charge for the cost of
distribution) a complete machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code,
to be distributed under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2 above; or,

      c) accompany it with the information you received as to where the
corresponding source code may be obtained. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form alone.)

   Source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable file, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains; but, as a special exception, it need
not include source code for modules which are standard libraries that accompany
the operating system on which the executable file runs, or for standard header
files or definitions files that accompany that operating system.

   4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer the Program
except as expressly provided under this General Public License. Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, distribute or transfer the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights to use the Program under this
License. However, parties who have received copies, or rights to use copies,
from you under this General Public License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   5. By copying, distributing or modifying the Program (or any work based on
the Program) you indicate your acceptance of this license to do so, and all its
terms and conditions.

   6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein.

   7. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of the license which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Program does not specify a version number of the license, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   8. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   9.

   BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE
PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT
NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   10. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

Appendix: How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to humanity, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) 19yy <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 1, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) 19xx name of author Gnomovision comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here a
sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (a program to direct compilers to make passes at assemblers)
written by James Hacker.

<signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

GPL-2.0+

GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE

Version 2, June 1991

Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this license
document, but changing it is not allowed.

Preamble

The licenses for most software are designed to take away your freedom to share
and change it. By contrast, the GNU General Public License is intended to
guarantee your freedom to share and change free software--to make sure the
software is free for all its users. This General Public License applies to most
of the Free Software Foundation's software and to any other program whose
authors commit to using it. (Some other Free Software Foundation software is
covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.) You can apply it to
your programs, too.

When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not price. Our
General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you have the freedom to
distribute copies of free software (and charge for this service if you wish),
that you receive source code or can get it if you want it, that you can change
the software or use pieces of it in new free programs; and that you know you can
do these things.

To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid anyone to deny
you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights. These restrictions
translate to certain responsibilities for you if you distribute copies of the
software, or if you modify it.

For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether gratis or for a
fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that you have. You must make
sure that they, too, receive or can get the source code. And you must show them
these terms so they know their rights.

We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and (2) offer
you this license which gives you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or
modify the software.

Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain that
everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free software. If the
software is modified by someone else and passed on, we want its recipients to
know that what they have is not the original, so that any problems introduced by
others will not reflect on the original authors' reputations.

Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software patents. We wish
to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free program will individually
obtain patent licenses, in effect making the program proprietary. To prevent
this, we have made it clear that any patent must be licensed for everyone's free
use or not licensed at all.

The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and modification
follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains a notice
placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this General Public License. The "Program", below, refers to any such program or
work, and a "work based on the Program" means either the Program or any
derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the
Program or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or
translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is included without
limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is addressed as "you".

   Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not covered
by this License; they are outside its scope. The act of running the Program is
not restricted, and the output from the Program is covered only if its contents
constitute a work based on the Program (independent of having been made by
running the Program). Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's source code
as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice and
disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the notices that refer to this License
and to the absence of any warranty; and give any other recipients of the Program
a copy of this License along with the Program.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and you may
at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion of it,
thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and distribute such
modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you also
meet all of these conditions:

      a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that you changed the files and the date of any change.

      b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole
or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any part thereof, to be
licensed as a whole at no charge to all third parties under the terms of this
License.

      c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively when run,
you must cause it, when started running for such interactive use in the most
ordinary way, to print or display an announcement including an appropriate
copyright notice and a notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that
you provide a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under these
conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License. (Exception:
if the Program itself is interactive but does not normally print such an
announcement, your work based on the Program is not required to print an
announcement.)

   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
sections of that work are not derived from the Program, and can be reasonably
considered independent and separate works in themselves, then this License, and
its terms, do not apply to those sections when you distribute them as separate
works. But when you distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a
work based on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole,
and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise the
right to control the distribution of derivative or collective works based on the
Program.

   In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program with
the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of a storage or
distribution medium does not bring the other work under the scope of this
License.

   3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it, under
Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above provided that you also do one of the following:

      a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source
code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three years, to
give any third party, for a charge no more than your cost of physically
performing source distribution, a complete machine-readable copy of the
corresponding source code, to be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

      c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer to
distribute corresponding source code. (This alternative is allowed only for
noncommercial distribution and only if you received the program in object code
or executable form with such an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

   The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for making
modifications to it. For an executable work, complete source code means all the
source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated interface
definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation and installation
of the executable. However, as a special exception, the source code distributed
need not include anything that is normally distributed (in either source or
binary form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component itself
accompanies the executable.

   If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering access to
copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the source
code from the same place counts as distribution of the source code, even though
third parties are not compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

   4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program except as
expressly provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the Program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this License. However, parties who have received copies, or
rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses terminated so
long as such parties remain in full compliance.

   5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed it.
However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the Program
or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you do not
accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the Program (or any
work based on the Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do
so, and all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying the
Program or works based on it.

   6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the Program),
the recipient automatically receives a license from the original licensor to
copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to these terms and conditions.
You may not impose any further restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the
rights granted herein. You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third
parties to this License.

   7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues), conditions
are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or otherwise) that
contradict the conditions of this License, they do not excuse you from the
conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so as to satisfy
simultaneously your obligations under this License and any other pertinent
obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute the Program at all.
For example, if a patent license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of
the Program by all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you,
then the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to refrain
entirely from distribution of the Program.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply and the
section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any patents
or other property right claims or to contest validity of any such claims; this
section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity of the free software
distribution system, which is implemented by public license practices. Many
people have made generous contributions to the wide range of software
distributed through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing to
distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot impose that
choice.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
consequence of the rest of this License.

   8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in certain
countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the original copyright
holder who places the Program under this License may add an explicit
geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries, so that
distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such
case, this License incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this
License.

   9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the General Public License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar
in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any later
version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions either of
that version or of any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
If the Program does not specify a version number of this License, you may choose
any version ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

   10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free programs
whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author to ask for
permission. For software which is copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation,
write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.
Our decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status of
all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing and reuse of
software generally.

   NO WARRANTY

   11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR
THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE
STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM
"AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
PROGRAM IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

   12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR
INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA
BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. END OF TERMS
AND CONDITIONS

How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest possible use
to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it free software which
everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

To do so, attach the following notices to the program. It is safest to attach
them to the start of each source file to most effectively convey the exclusion
of warranty; and each file should have at least the "copyright" line and a
pointer to where the full notice is found.

<one line to give the program's name and an idea of what it does.>

Copyright (C) <yyyy> <name of author>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin
Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301, USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this when it
starts in an interactive mode:

Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author Gnomovision comes with
ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'. This is free software, and
you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions; type `show c' for
details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License. Of course, the commands you use may be
called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be mouse-
clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary. Here is
a sample; alter the names:

Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
`Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

< signature of Ty Coon > , 1 April 1989 Ty Coon, President of Vice



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC-BY-4.0

This software includes Material which is copyright by The Linux kernel
developers. The material is licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or CC-BY-4.0. Both license
texts are provided in this document.

For more information please visit: https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/g
it/torvalds/linux.git/plain/Documentation/admin-guide/reporting-issues.rst

Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent possible,
the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and makes no
representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed Material,
whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without
limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the
presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where
disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer
may not apply to You.
To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on any
legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any
direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or
other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or
use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the
possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of
liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to
You.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC-BY-SA-4.0

This software contains material copyrighted by Luca Ceresoli and licensed under
Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/. The license text can be found
in this document. For more information please go to
https://worldvectorlogo.com/de/logo/i2c-bus

Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent possible,
the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and makes no
representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed Material,
whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without
limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the
presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where
disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer
may not apply to You.
To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on any
legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any
direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or
other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or
use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the
possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of
liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to
You.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or BSD-2-Clause, in this
context BSD-2-Clause has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or BSD-2-Clause. For convenience all
license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-1.0-or-later or BSD-3-Clause, in this
context BSD-3-Clause has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-1.0-or-later or BSD-3-Clause. For convenience all
license texts are provided.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or Apache-2.0, in 
this context GPL-2.0-only has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of 
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or Apache-2.0. For convenience all license 
texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or MPL-1.1, in this context
GPL-2.0-only, has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to
choose either GPL-2.0-only or MPL-1.1. For convenience all license texts are
provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-3-Clause, in this
context BSD-3-Clause has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-3-Clause. For convenience all
license texts are provided

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-2-Clause, in this
context BSD-2-Clause has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-2-Clause. For convenience all
license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later AND MIT-style OR BSD-3-Clause
AND MIT-style, in this context BSD-3-Clause AND MIT-style has been chosen. This
shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later AND MIT-
style OR BSD-3-Clause AND MIT-style. For convenience all license texts are
provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or Apache-2.0 or OpenSSL or
CC0-1.0, in this context CC0-1.0 has been chosen. This shall not restrict the
freedom of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or Apache-2.0 or OpenSSL or
CC0-1.0. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or GFDL-1.1-no-invariants-or-
later, in this context GPL-2.0-only has been chosen. This shall not restrict the
freedom of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or GFDL-1.1-no-invariants-or-
later. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or X11, in this context X11
has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose
either GPL-2.0-only or X11. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-style, in this 
context BSD-style has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other 
users to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or BSD-style. For convenience all license 
texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under LGPL-2.0-only or CMU-License, in this
context CMU-License has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other
users to choose either LGPL-2.0-only or CMU-License. For convenience all license
texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or LGPL-3.0-or-later,
in this context GPL-2.0-or-later, has been chosen. This shall not restrict the
freedom of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or LGPL-3.0-or-later.
For convenience all license texts are provided.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later WITH Linux-syscall-note 
or MIT, in this context MIT has been chosen. This shall not restrict the
freedom of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later WITH Linux-syscall-note 
or MIT. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under LGPL-2.1-only or BSD-2-Clause, in this
context BSD-2-Clause has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either LGPL-2.1-only or BSD-2-Clause. For convenience all
license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under LGPL-2.1-only or MIT, in this context MIT,
has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose
either LGPL-2.1-only or MIT. For convenience all license texts are provided

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under LGPL-2.0-or-later OR BSD-2-Clause, in this
context BSD-2-Clause has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either LGPL-2.0-or-later OR BSD-2-Clause. For convenience all
license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-1.0-or-later or X11, in this context 
X11 has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose
either GPL-1.0-or-later or X11. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or MIT, in this context 
MIT, has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose
either GPL-2.0-or-later or MIT. For convenience all license texts are provided

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or CDDL-1.0, in this context
GPL-2.0-only has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to
choose either GPL-2.0-only or CDDL-1.0. For convenience all license texts are
provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under copyleft-next 0.3.1 or GPL-2.0-or-later, in
this context GPL-2.0-or-later has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either copyleft-next 0.3.1 or GPL-2.0-or-later. For convenience
all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or Linux-OpenIB, in this
context Linux-OpenIB has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or Linux-OpenIB. For convenience all
license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under (GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-syscall-note)
OR BSD-2-Clause, in this context BSD-2-Clause has been chosen. This shall not
restrict the freedom of other users to choose either (GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-
syscall-note) OR BSD-3-Clause. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-1.0-or-later or BSD-2-Clause, in this
context BSD-2-Clause has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-1.0-or-later or BSD-2-Clause. For convenience all
license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or CC-BY-4.0, in this context
GPL-2.0-or-later has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to
choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or CC-BY-4.0. For convenience all license texts are
provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-1.0-or-later or MIT, in this context MIT
has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose
either GPL-1.0-or-later or MIT. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or ISC-Style-Red-Hat, in this
context ISC-Style-Red-Hat has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom
of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or ISC-Style-Red-Hat. For convenience
all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later WITH Linux-syscall-note or
BSD-3-Clause, in this context BSD-3-Clause has been chosen. This shall not
restrict the freedom of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later WITH Linux-
syscall-note or BSD-3-Clause. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-syscall-note 
or Linux-OpenIB, in this context Linux-OpenIB has been chosen. This shall not
restrict the freedom of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only WITH 
Linux-syscall-note or Linux-OpenIB. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-syscall-note
or MIT, in this context MIT has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom
of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-syscall-note or MIT. For
convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or BSD-3-Clause, in this
context BSD-3-Clause, has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or BSD-3-Clause. For convenience all
license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or MIT, in this context
MIT has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to
choose either GPL-2.0-only or MIT. For convenience all license texts are
provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or GFDL-1.2-no-
invariants-only, in this context GPL-2.0-only has been chosen. This shall not
restrict the freedom of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or
GFDL-1.2-no-invariants-only. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or Permission-Notice,
in this context Permission-Notice has been chosen. This shall not restrict the
freedom of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-or-later or Permission-Notice.
For convenience all license texts are provided

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or GFDL-1.2-only, in this
context GPL-2.0-only has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of
other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or GFDL-1.2-only. For convenience all
license texts are provided

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-syscall-note
or BSD-3-Clause, in this context BSD-3-Clause has been chosen. This shall not
restrict the freedom of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-
syscall-note or BSD-3-Clause. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under (GPL-2.0-only WITH Linux-syscall-note) 
or CDDL-1.0, in this context GPL-2.0 WITH Linux-syscall-note, has been chosen. 
This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose either (GPL-2.0-only 
WITH Linux-syscall-note) or CDDL-1.0. For convenience all license texts are 
provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later or X11, in this context 
X11 has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose
either GPL-2.0-or-later or X11. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under MIT or Apache-2.0, in this context MIT
has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose
either MIT or Apache-2.0. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-3.0-only or GPL-2.0-only, in this 
context GPL-2.0-only, has been chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of 
other users to choose either GPL-3.0-only or GPL-2.0-only. For convenience all 
license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under (Artistic-Perl or GPL-1.0-or-later) or
GPL-2.0-only, in this context GPL-2.0-only has been chosen. This shall not 
restrict the freedom of other users to choose either (Artistic-Perl OR 
GPL-1.0-or-later) OR GPL-2.0-only. For convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-only or BSD-style license, in
this context BSD-style license has been chosen. This shall not restrict the
freedom of other users to choose either GPL-2.0-only or BSD-style license. For
convenience all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dual-license

To the extend files may be licensed under GPL-2.0-or-later AND MIT-style or
BSD-3-Clause AND MIT-style, in this context BSD-3-Clause AND MIT-style has been
chosen. This shall not restrict the freedom of other users to choose either
GPL-2.0-or-later AND MIT-style or BSD-3-Clause AND MIT-style. For convenience
all license texts are provided.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright notices

Copyright (C) 2015 David Rientjes
Copyright (C) B.A.T.M.A.N. contributors: Marek Lindner, Simon Wunderlich
Copyright (C) B.A.T.M.A.N. contributors: Sven Eckelmann
Copyright (C) B.A.T.M.A.N. contributors: Marek Lindner, Simon Wunderlich,
Antonio Quartulli
Copyright (C) B.A.T.M.A.N. contributors: Marek Lindner, Simon Wunderlich
Copyright(C) 1999 Benjamin Reed.
Copyright (C) 2001 Richard Zidlicky <rz@linux-m68k.org>
Copyright 2007 Richard Genoud (richard.genoud@gmail.com), Adeneo
(C) 2003 Oliver Neukum <oliver@neukum.name> Ali Akcaagac <aliakc@web.de> Jamie
Lenehan <lenehan@twibble.org>
Copyright Carvalho Chehab, Mauro <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright Authors: J. K. Metzler, Ralph <rjkm@metzlerbros.de> O. C. Metzler,
Marcus <rjkm@metzlerbros.de> Carvalho Chehab, Mauro <mchehab samsung@kernel.org>
Copyright 2001/08/08 yokota@netlab.is.tsukuba.ac.jp <YOKOTA Hiroshi>
© Scharfe Samuel Tardieu Shawn O. Pearce Steffen Prohaska Steve Haslam
© Expósito <jose.exposito89@gmail.com>
© Copyright IBM Corporation 2006-2008
© Copyright 2016 Free Electrons
© Copyright 2016 ATMEL
© Copyright 2013 ATMEL, Josh Wu (josh.wu@atmel.com)
© Copyright 2012 ATMEL, Hong Xu
© Copyright 2011-2013 Datera, Inc.
© Copyright 2006 ATMEL Rousset, Lacressonniere Nicolas
© Copyright 1996 by Geert Uytterhoeven <geert@linux-m68k.org>
© Copyright 1995-2003 by Geert Uytterhoeven (geert@linux-m68k.org) Peter De
Schrijver (p2@mind.be)
© Copyright 1995 by Geert Uytterhoeven (geert@linux-m68k.org) Peter De Schrijver
Peter.DeSchrijver@linux.cc.kuleuven.ac.be
© Copyright 1995 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved.
© Almeida <andrealmeid@igalia.com>
© Almeida <andrealmeid@collabora.com>
© 2005 Eptar srl Author: Claudio Lanconelli <lanconelli.claudio@eptar.com>
© 2004 Simtec Electronics
© 2001-2006 Red Hat, Inc.
copyrights (c) 1994 by Michael Hipp (hippm@informatik.uni-tuebingen.de)
copyrighted by Russell King 
copyrighted by PenMount Touch Solutions <penmount <at> seed.net.tw>
copyrighted by Freescale, Liam Girdwood, Javier Martin and probably others.
copyrighted and maintained by the FlexNet team.
copyrighted 1990 Mark Adler
copyright holders: 1992-2000 by Donald Becker 1995-1998 by Paul Gortmaker
copyright by Digigram SA
copyright Sebastian Carlier
copyright M. Welsh.
copyright Linus Torvalds and others.
copyright Joerg Dorchain (dorchain@mpi-sb.mpg.de)
copyright Jamal Hadi Salim (2016)
copyright Jamal Hadi Salim (2015)
copyright Jamal Hadi Salim (2002-4)
copyright IBM Corp. 2007
copyright Chris Mason 2000
copyright Author: Tony Finch (dot@dotat.at)
copyright Adrian McMenamin, 2007 With thanks to Marcus Comstedt and Nathan
Keynes
copyright : (C) 2002 by karsten wiese email : annabellesgarden@yahoo.de
copyright 2016 linaro ltd.
copyright 2016 google inc.
copyright 2011-2014, ARM Ltd.
copyright 2008 Magnus Damm
copyright 2005 Oracle except when otherwise noted.
copyright 2004 Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
copyright 2001,2002 Manfred Spraul (manfred@colorfullife.com)
copyright 2001 Steven Whitehouse <steve@chygwyn.com>
copyright 2001 Ryan Bradetich <rbradetich@uswest.net>
copyright 2000 by Hans Reiser
copyright 2000 Philipp Rumpf <prumpf@tux.org>
copyright 2000 Martin K. Petersen <mkp@mkp.net>
copyright 1999-2001 by Donald Becker.
copyright 1999 The Puffin Group Inc.
copyright 1999 SuSE GmbH (Philipp Rumpf)
copyright 1997-2001 by Donald Becker.
copyright 1994-2001 by Donald Becker. Kevin B. Hendricks
copyright 1994-2001 by Donald Becker.
copyright 1993-1998 by Donald Becker.
copyright 1989 Regents of the University of California.
copyright 1986, 1989, 1990 by Abacus Research and Development, Inc.
copyright (c) Alan Cox
copyright (c) 2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
copyright (c) 2011-2012 Google, Inc.
copyright (c) 2011-2012 Cypress Semiconductor, Inc.
copyright (c) 2006 IBM Corporation Authored by: Mike D. Day <ncmike@us.ibm.com>
copyright (c) 2005 SDG Systems, LLC and,
copyright (c) 2004 Evgeniy Polyakov <zbr@ioremap.net>
copyright (c) 2003 by David Young <dyoung@pobox.com>
copyright (c) 2002 Romain Lievin <roms@lpg.ticalc.org>.
copyright (c) 2001,2002 Sun Microsystems (thockin@sun.com) Cesar Barros, Erik
Gilling, Tim Hockin and Wim Van Sebroeck.
copyright (c) 2001,2002 Sun Microsystems (thockin@sun.com)
copyright (c) 2001 Sun Microsystems
copyright (c) 1997-2003 Jean Tourrilhes jt@hpl.hp.com>
copyright (C) by Hannu Savolainen 1993-1996
copyright (C) 2010 Novell. All rights reserved.
copyright (C) 2007 Cluster File Systems, Inc
copyright (C) 2005-2006 Pierre Ossman
copyright (C) 2005, Chuck Lever <cel@netapp.com>
copyright (C) 2004-2005 Pierre Ossman,
copyright (C) 2003 Russell King
copyright (C) 2003 Intel Corporation.
copyright (C) 2001-2003 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
copyright (C) 2001, Benoit Papillault
copyright (C) 1999/2000 by Henning Zabel <henning@uni-paderborn.de>
copyright (C) 1992 Michael K. Johnson 1993 Nigel Gamble
Written by Theodore Ts'o, Copyright 1994
Seth Schoen (c) 2021
MontaVista Software, Inc (c) 2007
JosÃ© Luis SÃ¡nchez (jsanchezv@teleline.es)
Copyrights: Keith Owens, Andrea Arcangeli
Copyrights (c) 1994,1995,1996 by M.Hipp (hippm@informatik.uni-tuebingen.de)
Copyrights (C) IBM Corporation, 2011. Author: Suzuki Poulose <suzuki@in.ibm.com>
Copyrighted 1992 by Mark Adler 10 January 1993
Copyrighted (c) 2013 by Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyrighted (C) 1994, 1995, 1996 Normunds Saumanis (normunds@fi.ibm.com)
Copyrighted (C) 1994 Normunds Saumanis (normunds@rx.tech.swh.lv)
Copyrighted (C) 1993 by Hartmut Schirmer
Copyright: © 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright: jfclere@sinix.net
Copyright: cameron@moodycamel.com
Copyright: Vovan888 at gmail com
Copyright: ST-Ericsson AB 2010
Copyright: MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright: Monta Vista Software, Inc.
Copyright: Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright: Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk> Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright: Arcom Control Systems
Copyright: 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright: 2021 NXP
Copyright: 2021 Intel Corporation Authors: - Fenghua Yu <fenghua.yu@intel.com>
Tony Luck <tony.luck@intel.com>
Copyright: 2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright: 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright: 2019 NXP
Copyright: 2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright: 2019 Giovanni Mascellani <gio@debian.org>
Copyright: 2018, 2021 Intel Corporation Author: Sakari Ailus
<sakari.ailus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright: 2018 NXP
Copyright: 2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright: 2017-2018 NXP
Copyright: 2017-2018 Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
Copyright: 2017 Intel Corporation
Copyright: 2017 Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
Copyright: 2016-2018 NXP
Copyright: 2016, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved. Author: Neo Jia
<cjia@nvidia.com> Author: Kirti Wankhede <kwankhede@nvidia.com>
Copyright: 2016, Intel Corporation Author: Lv Zheng <lv.zheng@intel.com>
Copyright: 2016, Intel Corporation
Copyright: 2016 Intel Corporation Authors: - Fenghua Yu <fenghua.yu@intel.com>
Tony Luck <tony.luck@intel.com> Vikas Shivappa <vikas.shivappa@intel.com>
Copyright: 2016 Intel Corporation
Copyright: 2016 Barix AG Author: Petr Kulhavy <petr@barix.com>
Copyright: 2015, Intel Corporation Author: Lv Zheng <lv.zheng@intel.com>
Copyright: 2015 Stephen Chandler Paul <thatslyude@gmail.com>
Copyright: 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright: 2014 Renesas Electronics Europe Limited 2022 Schneider Electric
Copyright: 2014 Raumfeld GmbH Author: Sven Brandau <info@brandau.biz>
Copyright: 2013-2016, Intel Corporation
Copyright: 2013, Intel Corporation
Copyright: 2012, Intel Corporation
Copyright: 2011 Raumfeld GmbH Author: Sven Brandau <info@brandau.biz>
Copyright: 2011 Raumfeld GmbH Author: Johannes Stezenbach <js@sig21.net>
Copyright: 2010-2011 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>, Novell Inc.
Copyright: 2010 Alan Stern <stern@rowland.harvard.edu>
Copyright: 2009-2010 Stephane Chatty
Copyright: 2009-2010	Henrik Rydberg <rydberg@euromail.se>
Copyright: 2009 Intel Corporation Authors: - Yu Zhao <yu.zhao@intel.com> Donald
Dutile <ddutile@redhat.com>
Copyright: 2008-2010 Rafi Rubin <rafi@seas.upenn.edu>
Copyright: 2008-2009	Henrik Rydberg <rydberg@euromail.se>
Copyright: 2008, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>
Copyright: 2008	Scott Shawcroft (scott.shawcroft@gmail.com)
Copyright: 2006, 2007 Simtec Electronics
Copyright: 2006 Nicolas Boichat (nicolas@boichat.ch)
Copyright: 2006 Intel Corporation
Copyright: 2005-2010: Thomas Gleixner
Copyright: 2005-2006: Ingo Molnar
Copyright: 2005 Stelian Pop (stelian@popies.net)
Copyright: 2005 Stelian Pop <stelian@popies.net>
Copyright: 2005 Peter Osterlund (petero2@telia.com)
Copyright: 2005 Michael Hanselmann (linux-kernel@hansmi.ch)
Copyright: 2005 Johannes Berg (johannes@sipsolutions.net)
Copyright: 2005 Frank Arnold (frank@scirocco-5v-turbo.de)
Copyright: 2004 Intel Corporation
Copyright: 2003, 2008 Intel Corporation
Copyright: 2002-2011 Sentelic Corporation.
Copyright: 2002-2005 Massimo Dal Zotto <dz@debian.org>
Copyright: 2001-2004	Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright: 1999-2001 Vojtech Pavlik <vojtech@ucw.cz> - Sponsored by SuSE
Copyright: 1998-2000 Vojtech Pavlik <vojtech@ucw.cz>
Copyright: 1998 Andree Borrmann <a.borrmann@tu-bs.de>
Copyright: 1996-2000 Vojtech Pavlik <vojtech@ucw.cz> - Sponsored by SuSE
Copyright: 1995--1999 Martin Mares, <mj@ucw.cz>
Copyright: 1991 - 2018 Linus Torvalds and others.
Copyright: (c) 2014 Czech Technical University in Prague
Copyright: (c) 2011 Czech Technical University in Prague
Copyright: (c) 2010, Red Hat. All rights reserved.
Copyright: (c) 2000-2001 Cyclades Corp.
Copyright: (C) 2022 Ziyang Xuan.
Copyright: (C) 2021 Denis Efremov ISPRAS
Copyright: (C) 2020 Wen Yang, Alibaba.
Copyright: (C) 2020 Sumera Priyadarsini URL:
https://coccinelle.gitlabpages.inria.fr/website
Copyright: (C) 2020 Intel Corporation URL:
https://coccinelle.gitlabpages.inria.fr/website
Copyright: (C) 2020 Denis Efremov ISPRAS
Copyright: (C) 2019 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright: (C) 2018-2019 Wen Yang, ZTE.
Copyright: (C) 2017 Julia Lawall, Inria/LIP6, URL:
https://coccinelle.gitlabpages.inria.fr/website
Copyright: (C) 2017 Himanshu Jha URL:
https://coccinelle.gitlabpages.inria.fr/website
Copyright: (C) 2017 Himanshu Jha
Copyright: (C) 2016 Protonic Holland.
Copyright: (C) 2016 Nicholas Mc Guire, OSADL.
Copyright: (C) 2016 Linaro Limited
Copyright: (C) 2016 Andrew F. Davis <afd@ti.com>
Copyright: (C) 2015 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright: (C) 2015 Intel Corp.
Copyright: (C) 2015 Andrzej Hajda, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. URL:
https://coccinelle.gitlabpages.inria.fr/website
Copyright: (C) 2014 Wolfram Sang.
Copyright: (C) 2014 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright: (C) 2014 Himangi Saraogi.
Copyright: (C) 2014 Himangi Saraogi
Copyright: (C) 2014 Fabian Frederick.
Copyright: (C) 2013 Petr Strnad.
Copyright: (C) 2013 Julia Lawall, INRIA/LIP6.
Copyright: (C) 2013 Gilles Muller, INRIA/LIP6.
Copyright: (C) 2012-2013 Linaro Limited
Copyright: (C) 2012, 2015 Julia Lawall, INRIA.
Copyright: (C) 2012, 2015 Gilles Muller, INRIA.
Copyright: (C) 2012 ST Microelectronics
Copyright: (C) 2012 Peter Senna Tschudin, INRIA/LIP6.
Copyright: (C) 2012 Nicolas Palix.
Copyright: (C) 2012 Julia Lawall, INRIA/LIP6.
Copyright: (C) 2012 Gilles Muller, INRIA/LiP6. 
Copyright: (C) 2012 Gilles Muller, INRIA/LiP6.
Copyright: (C) 2012 Gilles Muller, INRIA/LIP6.
Copyright: (C) 2012 ARM Limited
Copyright: (C) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright: (C) 2011 Julia Lawall, INRIA/LIP6.
Copyright: (C) 2011 Gilles Muller, INRIA/LiP6.
Copyright: (C) 2010-2012 Nicolas Palix.
Copyright: (C) 2010-2012 Julia Lawall, INRIA/LIP6.
Copyright: (C) 2010-2012 Gilles Muller, INRIA/LiP6.
Copyright: (C) 2010, 2011 Nokia Corporation
Copyright: (C) 2010 Nicolas Palix, DIKU.
Copyright: (C) 2010 Julia Lawall, DIKU.
Copyright: (C) 2010 Gilles Muller, INRIA/LiP6.
Copyright: (C) 2009-2010 Julia Lawall, Nicolas Palix, DIKU.
Copyright: (C) 2009-2010 Gilles Muller, INRIA/LiP6.
Copyright: (C) 2009, 2010 Nicolas Palix, DIKU.
Copyright: (C) 2009, 2010 Julia Lawall, DIKU.
Copyright: (C) 2009, 2010 Gilles Muller, INRIA/LiP6.
Copyright: (C) 2009 Texas Instruments, India
Copyright: (C) 2009 Nokia Corporation
Copyright: (C) 2009 MontaVista Software, Inc., <source@mvista.com>
Copyright: (C) 2008 Mistral Solutions Pvt Ltd.,
Copyright: (C) 2008 Mistral Solutions Pvt Ltd
Copyright: (C) 2007 MontaVista Software, Inc., <source@mvista.com>
Copyright: (C) 2006-2009 Instrumentation Technologies
Copyright:	Wolfson Microelectronics. PLC.
Copyright:	Toby Churchill Ltd Nico Pitre
Copyright:	Toby Churchill Ltd Nicholas Pitre
Copyright:	Phytec Messtechnik GmbH e-Mail:	armlinux@phytec.de
Copyright:	MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright:	MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright:	Monta Vista Software, Inc.
Copyright:	Jürgen Schindele
Copyright:	Jamal Hadi Salim (2002-13)
Copyright:	Craig Hughes
Copyright:	Arcom Control Systems.
Copyright:	Arcom Control Systems Ltd.
Copyright:      Analog Devices Inc. Author:     Roy Huang <roy.huang@analog.com>
Cliff Cai <cliff.cai@analog.com>
Copyright:	Analog Devices Inc. Author:	Cliff Cai <cliff.cai@analog.com>
Copyright:	2011 Azimut Ltd. <http://azimutrzn.ru/>
Copyright:	2007 Metrologic Instruments. All rights reserved.
Copyright:	2005-2008 Wolfson Microelectronics. PLC.
Copyright:	(c) 1998-2003 Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo
Copyright:	(c) 1998 Ben Greear
Copyright:	(C) Torsten Schenk
Copyright:	(C) MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright:	(C) 2018 Socionext Inc.
Copyright:	(C) 2017 Linaro Limited
Copyright:      (C) 2017 Conexant Systems, Inc. Author: Simon Ho,
<Simon.ho@conexant.com>
Copyright:	(C) 2016 Linaro Limited Created by:	Nicolas Pitre, January 2016
Copyright:	(C) 2013 Sergei Ianovich <ynvich@gmail.com>
Copyright:	(C) 2013 Linaro Limited
Copyright:	(C) 2012-2013 Linaro Limited
Copyright:	(C) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright:	(C) 2009 Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
Copyright:	(C) 2004 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright:	(C) 2003 Monta Vista Software, Inc.
Copyright:	(C) 2002 Rory Bolt
Copyright:	(C) 2001 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright:	(C) 2000, 2001 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright, IBM Corp. 2020
Copyright, IBM Corp. 1999-2002
Copyright, C) 2015 Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright, 1988-1992, Russell Nelson, Crynwr Software
Copyright(c): 2009, Thomas Renninger <trenn@suse.de>, Novell Inc.
Copyright(c) by Ralph Metzler, Gerd Knorr, Gunther Mayer
Copyright(c) Pierre Ossman
Copyright(c) FUJITSU Limited 2008.
Copyright(c) Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@conectiva.com.br>
Copyright(c) 2022, Analogix Semiconductor. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2022, Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright(c) 2022 Realtek Semiconductor Corp.
Copyright(c) 2022 Mediatek Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2022 Mediatek Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2022 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2022 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright(c) 2021-2022 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2021-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2021, Cornelis Networks.
Copyright(c) 2021 Realtek Semiconductor Corp.
Copyright(c) 2021 Nuvoton Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2021 Mediatek Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2021 Mediatek Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2021 Intel Corporation. All rights rsvd.
Copyright(c) 2021 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2021 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2021 Cornelis Networks.
Copyright(c) 2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright(c) 2020-2022 Realtek Corporation
Copyright(c) 2020-2022 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2020-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2020-2021 Realtek Corporation
Copyright(c) 2020-2021 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2020-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2020, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2020, Analogix Semiconductor. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2020 Sven Van Asbroeck
Copyright(c) 2020 Realtek Semiconductor Corp.
Copyright(c) 2020 Realtek Corporation
Copyright(c) 2020 Pensando Systems, Inc
Copyright(c) 2020 Intel Corporation. All rights rsvd.
Copyright(c) 2020 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2020 Intel Corporation, Weqaar Janjua <weqaar.a.janjua@intel.com>
Copyright(c) 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2020 Cornelis Networks, Inc.
Copyright(c) 2020 Adapt-IP
Copyright(c) 2020 - Cornelis Networks, Inc.
Copyright(c) 2020 - 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2019-2022, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2019-2022 Realtek Corporation
Copyright(c) 2019-2022 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2019-2022 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright(c) 2019-2021 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2019-2020 Realtek Corporation
Copyright(c) 2019-2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2019 Realtek Semiconductor Corp.
Copyright(c) 2019 Pensando Systems, Inc
Copyright(c) 2019 Intel Corporation. All rights rsvd.
Copyright(c) 2019 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2019 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2019 Björn Töpel <bjorn.topel@gmail.com>
Copyright(c) 2019 - 2023 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2019 - 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2018-2022 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2018-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2018-2021 Realtek Corporation
Copyright(c) 2018-2021 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2018-2021 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2018-2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2018-2019 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2018-2019 Realtek Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2018-2019 Realtek Corporation
Copyright(c) 2018-19 Canonical Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2018, 2020-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2018 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2018 Linus Torvalds. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2018 Jesper Dangaard Brouer.
Copyright(c) 2018 Ira Weiny, Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2018 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved. Author: Liam Girdwood
<liam.r.girdwood@linux.intel.com> Keyon Jie <yang.jie@linux.intel.com>
Copyright(c) 2018 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2018 Broadcom
Copyright(c) 2018 Alexei Starovoitov. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2018 - 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2018 - 2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2018 - 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2018 - 2019 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2018 - 2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2017-2021 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2017-2019 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2017-2018 Jesper Dangaard Brouer, Red Hat Inc.
Copyright(c) 2017-2018 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2017-18 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2017, Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2017, Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright(c) 2017 T-Platforms. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright(c) 2017 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2017 Jesper Dangaard Brouer, Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright(c) 2017 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright(c) 2017 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2017 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2017 IBM Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2017 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd
Copyright(c) 2017 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2017 Broadcom Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2017 Broadcom
Copyright(c) 2017 - 2021 Pensando Systems, Inc
Copyright(c) 2017 - 2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2017 - 2019 Pensando Systems, Inc 
Copyright(c) 2017 - 2019 Pensando Systems, Inc
Copyright(c) 2017 - 2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2016-2020 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2016-2019 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2016-2018 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2016-2018 Broadcom
Copyright(c) 2016-2017 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2016-2017 Realtek Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2016-2017 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright(c) 2016-2017 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2016-20 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2016, Analogix Semiconductor. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2016, Analogix Semiconductor.
Copyright(c) 2016, 2017 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2016 Linaro Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2016 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright(c) 2016 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2016 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2016 Google Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2016 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2016 - 2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2016 - 2019 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2016 - 2018 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2016 - 2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2016 - 2017 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright(c) 2016 - 2017 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015-2021 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015-2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015-2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015-2017 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright(c) 2015-2017 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015-2017 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2015-18 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015-17 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015-17 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2015, 2016, 2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015, 2016, 2017 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015, 2016 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
Copyright(c) 2015 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright(c) 2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2015 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015 Huawei Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015 EZchip Technologies.
Copyright(c) 2015 Bryan O'Donoghue <pure.logic@nexus-software.ie>
Copyright(c) 2015 Broadcom Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2015 - 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2015 - 2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015 - 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2015 - 2019 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015 - 2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015 - 2017 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright(c) 2015 - 2017 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2015 - 2016 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright(c) 2014-2017 aQuantia Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2014 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
Copyright(c) 2014 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2014 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright(c) 2014 Broadcom Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2014 - 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2014 - 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2014 - 2015 Linaro Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2014 - 2015 Google Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2013-2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2013-2016 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2013-2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2013, Google Inc.
Copyright(c) 2013 Realtek Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2013 OpenVPN Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2013 Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright(c) 2013 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2013 - 2021 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2013 - 2019 Intel Corporation. 
Copyright(c) 2013 - 2019 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2013 - 2018 Intel Corporation. 
Copyright(c) 2013 - 2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2013 - 2015 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
Copyright(c) 2013 - 2014 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2013 - 2014 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
Copyright(c) 2013 - 2014 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2013 - 2014 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2012-2017 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2012 Realtek Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2012 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2012 Dialog Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright(c) 2011-2017 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2011-2016 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2011-2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright(c) 2011 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2011 Integrated Device Technology, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2011 Google, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2011 Dialog Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright(c) 2011 - 2012 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2010 Larry Finger. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2010 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2010 Arnaud Patard <apatard@mandriva.com>
Copyright(c) 2009-2014 Realtek Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2009-2013 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2009-2013 Realtek Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2009-2012 Realtek Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2009-2010 Realtek Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2009, RealTEK Technology Inc. All Right Reserved.
Copyright(c) 2009 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2009 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2009 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2009 Ian Molton <spyro@f2s.com>
Copyright(c) 2009 - 2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2009 - 2014 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2009 - 2009 Atheros Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2008-2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2008-2010 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2008, RealTEK Technology Inc. All Right Reserved.
Copyright(c) 2008 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2008 Mike Christie
Copyright(c) 2008 John W. Linville <linville@tuxdriver.com>
Copyright(c) 2008 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2008 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2008 - 2014, 2022 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2008 - 2014 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2008 - 2011 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved. All rights
reserved.
Copyright(c) 2008 - 2011 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2008 - 2010 Realtek Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2008 - 2010 Realsil Semiconductor Corporation
Copyright(c) 2008 - 2009 Atheros Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2007-2013 Realtek Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2007-2011 Realtek Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2007, RealTEK Technology Inc. All Right Reserved.
Copyright(c) 2007 xiong huang <xiong.huang@atheros.com>
Copyright(c) 2007 Yuri Tikhonov <yur@emcraft.com>
Copyright(c) 2007 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2007 Dmitry Baryshkov
Copyright(c) 2007 Chris Snook <csnook@redhat.com>
Copyright(c) 2007 Atheros Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2007 - 2018 Intel Corporation. 
Copyright(c) 2007 - 2014 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2007 - 2013 Realtek Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2007 - 2012 Realtek Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2007 - 2012 Realtek Corporation. 
Copyright(c) 2007 - 2011 Realtek Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2007 - 2011 Realtek Corporation. 
Copyright(c) 2007 - 2011 Realtek Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2007 - 2010 Realtek Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2007 - 2009 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2007 - 2009 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2007 - 2008 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2007 - 2008 Chris Snook <csnook@redhat.com>
Copyright(c) 2006 xiong huang <xiong.huang@atheros.com>
Copyright(c) 2006 Tundra Semiconductor Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2006 - 2008 Jay Cliburn <jcliburn@gmail.com>
Copyright(c) 2006 - 2007 Chris Snook <csnook@redhat.com>
Copyright(c) 2006 - 2007 Atheros Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2005-2011 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright(c) 2005-2008 Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright(c) 2005-2006 Chris Humbert
Copyright(c) 2005 Samsung Electronics Kyungmin Park <kyungmin.park@samsung.com>
Copyright(c) 2005 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2005 Ian Molton <spyro@f2s.com>
Copyright(c) 2005 Dirk Opfer
Copyright(c) 2005 - 2014, 2018 - 2021 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2005 - 2014 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2005 - 2011 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved. All rights
reserved.
Copyright(c) 2005 - 2011 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2005 - 2006 Attansic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2004-2005 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2004 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2004 - 2015 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2004 - 2009 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2004 - 2006 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2003-2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2003-2011 Intel Corporation <ilw@linux.intel.com>
Copyright(c) 2003-2006 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 2003 - 2014, 2022 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2003 - 2014, 2020 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2003 - 2014, 2018 - 2022 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2003 - 2014 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2003 - 2012 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved. All rights
reserved.
Copyright(c) 2003 - 2011 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2003 - 2006 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2003 - 2005 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2003 - 2004 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 2003 - 2004 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 2002-2010 Exar Corp.
Copyright(c) 1999-2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 1999-2006 Intel Corporation
Copyright(c) 1999 - 2018 Intel Corporation. 
Copyright(c) 1999 - 2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 1999 - 2015 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 1999 - 2013 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 1999 - 2008 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 1999 - 2006 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(c) 1999 - 2005 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 1999 - 2004 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright(c) 1996 Kars de Jong
Copyright(C) Timesys Corporation 2016
Copyright(C) Timesys Corporation 2015
Copyright(C) SEIKO EPSON CORPORATION 2013. All rights reserved.
Copyright(C) General Electric Company 2015
Copyright(C) 2020 Linaro Limited. All rights reserved. Author: Mike Leach
<mike.leach@linaro.org>
Copyright(C) 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright(C) 2019-2021 Lenovo
Copyright(C) 2019 Author(s): Giulio Benetti
<giulio.benetti@benettiengineering.com>
Copyright(C) 2017 Corentin Chary <corentin.chary@gmail.com>
Copyright(C) 2016 Linaro Limited. All rights reserved. Author: Mathieu Poirier
<mathieu.poirier@linaro.org>
Copyright(C) 2016 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright(C) 2015-2018 Linaro Limited.
Copyright(C) 2015 Pengutronix, Steffen Trumtrar <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright(C) 2015 Linaro Limited. All rights reserved. Author: Mathieu Poirier
<mathieu.poirier@linaro.org>
Copyright(C) 2015 Intel Ltd
Copyright(C) 2015 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(C) 2012-2016 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright(C) 2011 STMicroelectronics Ltd
Copyright(C) 2011 Linaro Limited. All rights reserved. Author: Sumit Semwal
<sumit.semwal@ti.com>
Copyright(C) 2011 Linaro Limited. All rights reserved.
Copyright(C) 2010-2011 Corentin Chary <corentin.chary@gmail.com>
Copyright(C) 2010 Red Hat.
Copyright(C) 2010 Jarod Wilson <jarod@wilsonet.com>
Copyright(C) 2010 Intel Corporation.
Copyright(C) 2010 Corentin Chary <corentin.chary@gmail.com>
Copyright(C) 2009 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright(C) 2007-2011 STMicroelectronics Ltd
Copyright(C) 2007, Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar
Copyright(C) 2007, 2008 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright(C) 2006-2007, Timesys Corp., Thomas Gleixner
Copyright(C) 2006-2007 Timesys Corp., Thomas Gleixner
Copyright(C) 2006, Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar
Copyright(C) 2006, Hans J. Koch <hjk@hansjkoch.de>
Copyright(C) 2006, Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright(C) 2006 Elan Digital Systems Limited
http://www.elandigitalsystems.com)
Copyright(C) 2006 Elan Digital Systems Limited http://www.elandigitalsystems.com
Copyright(C) 2005-2007, Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar
Copyright(C) 2005-2006, Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright(C) 2005-2006, Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar
Copyright(C) 2005-2006 Chris Humbert
Copyright(C) 2005, Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright(C) 2005, Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar
Copyright(C) 2005, Benedikt Spranger <b.spranger@linutronix.de>
Copyright(C) 2005 Dirk Opfer
Copyright(C) 2004 Venky Raju(dev@venky.ws)
Copyright(C) 1997 Jakub Jelinek
Copyright(C) 1996,1998 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright(C) 1996,1998 Jakub Jelinek
Copyright(C) 1996, 2000 David S. Miller
Copyright(C) 1996 Eddie C. Dost
Copyright(C) 1996 David S. Miller
Copyright(C) 1995 Miguel de Icaza
Copyright(C) 1995 Linus Torvalds
Copyright(C) 1995 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright(20)02 Hewlett-Packard Company.
Copyright © Sebastian Claßen, 2007 Jan Engelhardt, 2007-2010
Copyright © International Business Machines Corp., 2009
Copyright © International Business Machines Corp., 2006-2008
Copyright © International Business Machines Corp., 2006
Copyright © CC Computer Consultants GmbH, 2007 - 2008 Jan Engelhardt
<jengelh@medozas.de>
Copyright © CC Computer Consultants GmbH, 2007 - 2008
Copyright © CC Computer Consultants GmbH, 2007
Copyright © 2022 Rafał Miłecki <rafal@milecki.pl>
Copyright © 2022 Maíra Canal <mairacanal@riseup.net>
Copyright © 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright © 2021-2022 Microsoft Corporation
Copyright © 2021-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2021-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2021 Microsoft Corporation
Copyright © 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2021 Broadcom
Copyright © 2021 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates.
Copyright © 2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright © 2020-2022 Microsoft Corporation
Copyright © 2020-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2020,2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2020, Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright © 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2020 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 2020 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates.
Copyright © 2020 Alexey Gladkov <gladkov.alexey@gmail.com>
Copyright © 2020 ANSSI
Copyright © 2020 - 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2019-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2019-2020 Mickaël Salaün <mic@digikod.net>
Copyright © 2019-2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2019-2020 ANSSI
Copyright © 2019 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright © 2019 Macronix Author: Miquèl Raynal <miquel.raynal@bootlin.com>
Copyright © 2019 Macronix Author: Miquel Raynal <miquel.raynal@bootlin.com>
Copyright © 2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2019 Collabora ltd.
Copyright © 2019 Alexey Dobriyan <adobriyan@gmail.com>
Copyright © 2019 ANSSI
Copyright © 2018-2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2018-2020 ANSSI
Copyright © 2018-2019 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 2018 Red Hat Authors: Lyude Paul <lyude@redhat.com>
Copyright © 2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright © 2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2018 Intel Corp
Copyright © 2018 Broadcom
Copyright © 2018 Alexey Dobriyan <adobriyan@gmail.com>
Copyright © 2018 - 2022 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 2017-2020 Mickaël Salaün <mic@digikod.net>
Copyright © 2017-2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Copyright © 2017-2019 Mickaël Salaün <mic@digikod.net>
Copyright © 2017-2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2017-2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2017 Red Hat
Copyright © 2017 Keith Packard <keithp@keithp.com>
Copyright © 2017 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2017 Broadcom
Copyright © 2017 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates.
Copyright © 2016-2020 Mickaël Salaün <mic@digikod.net>
Copyright © 2016-2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2016-2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2016-2017 Broadcom
Copyright © 2016,2020 IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2016 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2016 IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2016 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP
Copyright © 2016 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright © 2016 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright © 2016 Collabora Ltd
Copyright © 2016 Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
Copyright © 2015-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2015-2016 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2015 Pengutronix, Markus Pargmann <mpa@pengutronix.de>
Copyright © 2015 Keith Packard <keithp@keithp.com>
Copyright © 2015 Intel Corporation.
Copyright © 2015 Intel Corporation Daniel Vetter <daniel.vetter@ffwll.ch>
Copyright © 2015 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2015 IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2015 Google Inc.
Copyright © 2015 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright © 2015 Broadcom
Copyright © 2014-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2014-2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2014-2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2014-2018 Broadcom
Copyright © 2014-2017 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2014-2017 Broadcom
Copyright © 2014-2016 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 2014-2016 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2014-2015 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 2014-2015 Broadcom
Copyright © 2014 The Chromium OS Authors
Copyright © 2014 Red Hat.
Copyright © 2014 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright © 2014 Red Hat
Copyright © 2014 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright © 2014 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright © 2014 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@mbnet.fi>
Copyright © 2014 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@iki.fi>
Copyright © 2014 Intel Corporation Daniel Vetter <daniel.vetter@ffwll.ch>
Copyright © 2014 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2014 Broadcom
Copyright © 2013-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2013-2014 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@iki.fi>
Copyright © 2013 Tony Breeds IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2013 Tom St Denis <tstdenis@elliptictech.com>
Copyright © 2013 Raspberry Pi (Trading) Ltd.
Copyright © 2013 Patrik Jakobsson
Copyright © 2013 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@mbnet.fi>
Copyright © 2013 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@iki.fi>
Copyright © 2013 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2013 Alistair Popple IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2013 Alistair Popple <alistair@popple.id.au> IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2012-2016 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2012-2014 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2012-2014 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd. http://www.hisilicon.com
Copyright © 2012-2013 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@mbnet.fi>
Copyright © 2012-2013 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@iki.fi>
Copyright © 2012 Roland Stigge
Copyright © 2012 Red Hat
Copyright © 2012 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright © 2012 NetCommWireless Iwo Mergler
<Iwo.Mergler@netcommwireless.com.au>
Copyright © 2012 Micron Technology, Inc.
Copyright © 2012 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@mbnet.fi>
Copyright © 2012 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright © 2012 Johannes Goetzfried Johannes.Goetzfried@informatik.stud.uni-
erlangen.de>
Copyright © 2012 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2011-2018 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 2011-2016 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2011-2013 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@iki.fi>
Copyright © 2011-2013 Jonas Gorski <jonas.gorski@gmail.com>
Copyright © 2011-2013 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2011-2012 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2011, Picochip.
Copyright © 2011, 2012 Roland Stigge
Copyright © 2011 WORK Microwave GmbH
Copyright © 2011 Tony Breeds IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2011 Parrot S.A.
Copyright © 2011 NXP Semiconductors
Copyright © 2011 Ivan Djelic <ivan.djelic@parrot.com>
Copyright © 2011 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2011 David Kliekamp IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2011 David Kleikamp IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2010-2015 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright © 2010 STMicroelectronics. Ashish Priyadarshi Shiraz Hashim
<shiraz.linux.kernel@gmail.com>
Copyright © 2010 ST Microelectronics Vipin Kumar <vipin.kumar@st.com> Ashish
Priyadarshi
Copyright © 2010 ST Microelectronics Shiraz Hashim
<shiraz.linux.kernel@gmail.com>
Copyright © 2010 Luca Barbieri
Copyright © 2010 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2010 Freescale Semiconductor
Copyright © 2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2010 Daniel Vetter
Copyright © 2009-2022 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 2009-2015 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 2009-2015 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright © 2009-2010, Intel Corporation and its suppliers.
Copyright © 2009-2010 Daniel Dickinson <openwrt@cshore.neomailbox.net>
Copyright © 2009 VIA Technology, Inc.
Copyright © 2009 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corporation.
Copyright © 2009 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp. <paulus@au1.ibm.com>
Copyright © 2009 Keith Packard
Copyright © 2009 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2009 IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2009 Daniel Vetter <daniel@ffwll.ch>
Copyright © 2009 Bluewater Systems Ltd Author: Andre Renaud
<andre@bluewatersys.com> Author: Ryan Mallon
Copyright © 2009 Alessandro Rubini
Copyright © 2009 - Maxim Levitsky
Copyright © 2008-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2008-2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2008-2017 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2008-2015 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2008-2012 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2008-2010 Samsung Electronics Kyungmin Park
<kyungmin.park@samsung.com> Marek Szyprowski <m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright © 2008-2010 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2008,2010 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2008, 2015 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Authors: Charles Kunzman Sam Glidden Mark Cianchetti
Copyright © 2008 by: Sander Huijsen <Shuijsen@optelecom-nkf.com> Troy Kisky
<troy.kisky@boundarydevices.com> Dirk Behme <Dirk.Behme@gmail.com>
Copyright © 2008 by Sander Huijsen <Shuijsen@optelecom-nkf.com> Troy Kisky
<troy.kisky@boundarydevices.com> Dirk Behme <Dirk.Behme@gmail.com>
Copyright © 2008 Traverse Technologies
Copyright © 2008 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright © 2008 Michael Neuling IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2008 Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV. Author: Frans Meulenbroeks
Copyright © 2008 Keith Packard <keithp@keithp.com>
Copyright © 2008 Keith Packard
Copyright © 2008 Intel Corporation 2014 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright © 2008 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2008 Ingo Molnar
Copyright © 2008 Ilya Yanok, Emcraft Systems
Copyright © 2008 IBM Corporation
Copyright © 2008 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2007-2008 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright © 2007-2008 Intel Corporation Jesse Barnes <jesse.barnes@intel.com>
Copyright © 2007-2008 Dave Airlie
Copyright © 2007-2008 Andres Salomon <dilinger@debian.org>
Copyright © 2007,2011 Nokia Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright © 2007 STMicroelectronics Pvt. Ltd.
Copyright © 2007 Richard Genoud (richard.genoud@gmail.com), Adeneo
Copyright © 2007 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright © 2007 Nokia Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright © 2007 Nokia Corporation
Copyright © 2007 Eugeny Boger <eugenyboger@dgap.mipt.ru>
Copyright © 2007 Eugene Konev <ejka@openwrt.org>
Copyright © 2007 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2007 David Gibson, IBM Corporation.
Copyright © 2007 David Airlie
Copyright © 2007 Dave Mueller
Copyright © 2007 Dave Airlie
Copyright © 2007 Anton Vorontsov 2004-2007 Matt Reimer 2004 Szabolcs Gyurko
Copyright © 2007 Anton Vorontsov <cbou@mail.ru>
Copyright © 2006-2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2006-2017 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2006-2016 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2006-2015, Intel Corporation.
Copyright © 2006-2014 Intel Corporation.
Copyright © 2006-2011 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2006-2010 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2006-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2006-2009, Intel Corporation.
Copyright © 2006-2009 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2006-2008,2010 Intel Corporation Jesse Barnes
<jesse.barnes@intel.com>
Copyright © 2006-2008 Intel Corporation Jesse Barnes <jesse.barnes@intel.com>
Copyright © 2006-2008 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org> Mike Albon
<malbon@openwrt.org>
Copyright © 2006-2007, 2010 Freescale Semiconductor
Copyright © 2006-2007 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright © 2006-2007 Intel Corporation Jesse Barnes <jesse.barnes@intel.com>
Copyright © 2006-2007 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2006-2007 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright © 2006, Intel Corporation.
Copyright © 2006 USAGI/WIDE Project, Author: Kazunori Miyazawa <miyazawa@linux-
ipv6.org>
Copyright © 2006 Texas Instruments.
Copyright © 2006 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright © 2006 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright © 2006 Red Hat UK Limited
Copyright © 2006 NEC Corporation
Copyright © 2006 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: Vitaly Wool
<vwool@ru.mvista.com>
Copyright © 2006 Keith Packard
Copyright © 2006 Jaya Kumar <jayakumar.lkml@gmail.com>
Copyright © 2006 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2006 Eric Anholt
Copyright © 2006 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2006 Dave Airlie
Copyright © 2006 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright © 2005-2009 Samsung Electronics Kyungmin Park
<kyungmin.park@samsung.com>
Copyright © 2005-2009 Samsung Electronics
Copyright © 2005-2009 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright © 2005-2006 Nokia Corporation
Copyright © 2005 Sean Young <sean@mess.org>
Copyright © 2005 Samsung Electronics Kyungmin Park <kyungmin.park@samsung.com>
Copyright © 2005 Jan Harkes <jaharkes@cs.cmu.edu>
Copyright © 2005 Agere Systems Inc. All rights reserved. http://www.agere.com
Copyright © 2005 Agere Systems Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright © 2004-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2004-2008 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright © 2004 Thomas Gleixner (tglx@linutronix.de)
Copyright © 2004 Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright © 2004 Texas Instruments, Jian Zhang <jzhang@ti.com>
Copyright © 2004 Szabolcs Gyurko
Copyright © 2004 Micron Technology Inc.
Copyright © 2004 Ferenc Havasi <havasi@inf.u-szeged.hu>, Zoltan Sogor
<weth@inf.u-szeged.hu>, Patrik Kluba <pajko@halom.u-szeged.hu>, University of
Szeged, Hungary 2006 KaiGai Kohei <kaigai@ak.jp.nec.com>
Copyright © 2004 Ferenc Havasi <havasi@inf.u-szeged.hu>, Zoltan Sogor
<weth@inf.u-szeged.hu>, Patrik Kluba <pajko@halom.u-szeged.hu>, University of
Szeged, Hungary
Copyright © 2004 Ferenc Havasi <havasi@inf.u-szeged.hu>, University of Szeged,
Hungary
Copyright © 2004 David Brownell
Copyright © 2003-2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright © 2003-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2003 Rick Bronson
Copyright © 2003 Kartikey Mahendra Bhatt <kartik_me@hotmail.com>
Copyright © 2003 Ian Molton <spyro@f2s.com>
Copyright © 2002-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2002-2003, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright © 2002-2003 SnapGear Inc
Copyright © 2002-2003 Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
Copyright © 2002, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright © 2002, 2003 David Dawes <dawes@xfree86.org> 2004 Sylvain Meyer 2006
David Airlie
Copyright © 2002, 2003 David Dawes <dawes@xfree86.org> 2004 Sylvain Meyer
Copyright © 2002 Thomas Gleixner <gleixner@linutronix.de>
Copyright © 2002 SYSGO Real-Time Solutions GmbH
Copyright © 2002 Robert Kaiser <rkaiser@sysgo.de>
Copyright © 2001-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2001-2007 Red Hat, Inc. Created by David Woodhouse
<dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2001-2007 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 2001-2007 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright © 2001 Thomas Gleixner (gleixner@autronix.de)
Copyright © 2001 Red Hat UK Limited
Copyright © 2001 Flaga hf. Medical Devices, Kári Davíðsson <kd@flaga.is>
Copyright © 2000-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org> et al.
Copyright © 2000-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org> Steven J. Hill
<sjhill@realitydiluted.com> Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright © 2000-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 2000-2005 Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linuxtronix.de>
Copyright © 2000-2003 Nicolas Pitre <nico@fluxnic.net>
Copyright © 2000 Steven J. Hill (sjhill@cotw.com)
Copyright © 2000 Red Hat UK Limited
Copyright © 2000 Nicolas Pitre <nico@fluxnic.net>
Copyright © 2000 Nicolas Pitre <nico@cam.org>
Copyright © 2000 Netgem S.A.
Copyright © 2000 ARM Limited
Copyright © 1999-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org> et al.
Copyright © 1999-2010 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 1999 Machine Vision Holdings, Inc.
Copyright © 1999 Hannu Mallat All rights reserved
Copyright © 1999 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright © 1999 David A. Hinds. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright © 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright © 1997-2003 by The XFree86 Project, Inc.
Copyright © 1997-1999 Janos Farkas <chexum@shadow.banki.hu>
Copyright © 1997-1998 by PowerLogix R & D, Inc.
Copyright © 1996 Hans-Joachim Widmaier
Copyright © 1993, 1994 Motorola Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright © 1993 Ray Burr
Copyright © 1991, 1992 Linus Torvalds
Copyright {C} 2009 <Bill.Liu@conexant.com>
Copyright by Pf@nne & NOTRO
Copyright by Michał Mirosław, 2008-2009
Copyright by Michael T. Mayers (c) Jan 09, 2000 mail: michael@tweakoz.com Thanks
to John Galbraith
Copyright by Intel Crop., 2002 Louis Zhuang (louis.zhuang@intel.com)
Copyright by Hannu Savolainen 1993-1997
Copyright by Andreas Eversberg (jolly@eversberg.eu)
Copyright by Adam Belay <ambx1@neo.rr.com>
Copyright abandoned, 2000, Niels Kristian Bech Jensen <nkbj@image.dk>.
Copyright Yaegashi Takeshi, 2001 Adrian McMenamin, 2008 - 2009
Copyright YAMAHA
Copyright Waterloo Microsystems Inc. 1985
Copyright Torsten Duwe <duwe@informatik.uni-erlangen.de> 1993
Copyright Tomi Manninen OH2BNS (oh2bns@sral.fi)
Copyright Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright Theodore Ts'o, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999. All rights
reserved.
Copyright The Asahi Linux Contributors
Copyright SysKonnect 1998,1999.
Copyright Sunplus Technology Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright Stephan Mueller <smueller@chronox.de>, 2015 - 2020
Copyright Stephan Mueller <smueller@chronox.de>, 2015
Copyright Stephan Mueller <smueller@chronox.de>, 2014
Copyright Sarah Sharp for Intel Corp, 2010
Copyright Samuel Mendoza-Jonas, IBM Corporation 2018.
Copyright SUSE, 2021
Copyright SUSE Linux Products GmbH 2010
Copyright SUSE Linux Products GmbH 2009
Copyright STMicroelectronics, 2007.
Copyright ST-Ericsson AB 2010
Copyright Rusty Russell IBM Corporation 2007.
Copyright Roman Zippel, 1997. All rights reserved.
Copyright RedHat, Inc.
Copyright Red Hat, Inc. 2020
Copyright Red Hat, Inc. 2019
Copyright Red Hat, Inc. 2014
Copyright Red Hat, Inc. 2013-2014
Copyright Red Hat, Inc. 2011
Copyright Red Hat, 2009
Copyright Red Hat Inc 2010. Author : Dave Airlie <airlied@redhat.com>
Copyright Red Hat Inc 2010.
Copyright Red Hat 2003
Copyright Realtek corp.
Copyright Realtek Semiconductor Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright RDA Microelectronics Company Limited
Copyright Pierre Ossman
Copyright Novell Inc. 2010
Copyright Novell Inc 2010
Copyright NXP 2016
Copyright Motorola 1984
Copyright MontaVista Software Inc
Copyright MaxLinear
Copyright Matthew Wilcox for Intel Corp, 2010
Copyright Matt Mackall <mpm@selenic.com>, 2003, 2004, 2005
Copyright Linus Torvalds and others.
Copyright Linas Vepstas 2005, 2006
Copyright Linas Vepstas <linas@linas.org> 2004, 2005
Copyright Linas Vepstas <linas@austin.ibm.com> 2007
Copyright Linas Vepstas <linas@austin.ibm.com> 2004
Copyright Larry Finger <Larry.Finger@lwfinger.net>
Copyright LG Electronics Inc., 2014 Written by: Marek Szyprowski
<m.szyprowski@samsung.com> Michal Nazarewicz <mina86@mina86.com> Aneesh Kumar
K.V <aneesh.kumar@linux.vnet.ibm.com> Joonsoo Kim <iamjoonsoo.kim@lge.com>
Copyright KOSAKI Motohiro <kosaki.motohiro@jp.fujitsu.com>
Copyright Jonathan Naylor G4KLX (g4klx@g4klx.demon.co.uk)
Copyright Joern Engel <joern@lazybastard.org>
Copyright Intel Corporation (C) 2019-2020. All rights reserved.
Copyright Intel Corporation (C) 2017. All Rights Reserved
Copyright Intel Corporation (C) 2017.
Copyright Intel Corporation (C) 2014-2016. All Rights Reserved
Copyright Intel Corp. 2018
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2021
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2019
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2018 Authors Suraj Jitindar Singh
<sjitindarsingh@gmail.com> Paul Mackerras <paulus@ozlabs.org>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2018 Author(s): Nayna Jain <nayna@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2018
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2017
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2016
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2015 Author Aneesh Kumar K.V
<aneesh.kumar@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2015
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2014
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2013.
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2013 Author Aneesh Kumar K.V
<aneesh.kumar@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2013 Author Aneesh Kumar K.V
<aneesh.kumar@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2013
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2012 Author Aneesh Kumar K.V
<aneesh.kumar@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2012
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2011
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2010 Author Venkateswararao Jujjuri
<jvrao@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2010 Author Aneesh Kumar K.V
<aneesh.kumar@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2009
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2008
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2007-2012
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2007 Josh Boyer <jwboyer@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2007 Authors: Chandra Seetharaman
<sekharan@us.ibm.com> Mike Anderson <andmike@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2007 Authors: Anthony Liguori <aliguori@us.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2007 Author: Srivatsa Vaddagiri
<vatsa@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2007 Author: Mike Anderson
<andmike@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2007 Author Balbir Singh <balbir@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2007 Author Aneesh Kumar K.V
<aneesh.kumar@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2007
Copyright IBM Corporation, 2001
Copyright IBM Corporation 2015
Copyright IBM Corporation 2008
Copyright IBM Corporation 2007
Copyright IBM Corporation 2004
Copyright IBM Corporation 2001, 2005, 2006
Copyright IBM Corporation 1999, 2009
Copyright IBM Corp. 2022 Author(s): Thomas Richter <tmricht@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2022 Author(s): Steffen Eiden <seiden@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2022
Copyright IBM Corp. 2021 Author(s): Vineeth Vijayan <vneethv@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2021
Copyright IBM Corp. 2020
Copyright IBM Corp. 2019, 2022
Copyright IBM Corp. 2019, 2020 Author(s): Janosch Frank <frankja@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2019, 2020
Copyright IBM Corp. 2019 Author(s): Thomas Richter <tmricht@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2019 Author(s): Joerg Schmidbauer (jschmidb@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2019 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner
<brueckner@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2019 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner <brueckner@linux.ibm.com>
Thomas Richter <tmricht@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2019 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner <brueckner@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2019 Author(s): Harald Freudenberger <freude@linux.ibm.com>
Ingo Franzki <ifranzki@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2019 Author(s): Harald Freudenberger <freude@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2019 Author(s): Eric Farman <farman@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2019
Copyright IBM Corp. 2018, 2020
Copyright IBM Corp. 2018 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner
<brueckner@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2018 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner <brueckner@linux.ibm.com>
Thomas Richter <tmricht@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2018
Copyright IBM Corp. 2017,2020 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com> Harald Freudenberger <freude@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2017,2019 Author(s): Harald Freudenberger
Copyright IBM Corp. 2017, 2022
Copyright IBM Corp. 2017, 2020 Author(s): Harald Freudenberger
Copyright IBM Corp. 2017, 2019
Copyright IBM Corp. 2017, 2018 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner
<brueckner@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2017 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner
<brueckner@linux.vnet.ibm.com> Ravi Bangoria <ravi.bangoria@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Kim Phillips <kim.phillips@arm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2017 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner
<brueckner@linux.vnet.ibm.com> Ravi Bangoria <ravi.bangoria@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2017 Author(s): Harald Freudenberger <freude@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2017 Author(s): Claudio Imbrenda
<imbrenda@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2017
Copyright IBM Corp. 2016,2019
Copyright IBM Corp. 2016, 2018
Copyright IBM Corp. 2016 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2016 Author(s): Janosch Frank <frankja@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2016 Author(s): Holger Dengler (hd@linux.vnet.ibm.com)
Harald Freudenberger <freude@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2016 Author(s): Harald Freudenberger <freude@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2016
Copyright IBM Corp. 2015, 2022 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner
<brueckner@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2015, 2018
Copyright IBM Corp. 2015 Author(s): Peter Oberparleiter
<oberpar@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2015 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2015 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner
<brueckner@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2015 Author(s): Gerald Schaefer <gerald.schaefer@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2015
Copyright IBM Corp. 2014, 2018 Author(s): Alexander Yarygin
<yarygin@linux.vnet.ibm.com> Thomas Richter <tmricht@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2014 Author(s): Jan Willeke,
Copyright IBM Corp. 2014 Author(s): Alexey Ishchuk <aishchuk@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2014
Copyright IBM Corp. 2013, 2018 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner
<brueckner@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2013 Author(s): Ralf Hoppe (rhoppe@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2013 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2013 Author(s): Eugene Crosser <eugene.crosser@ru.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2013
Copyright IBM Corp. 2012,2015
Copyright IBM Corp. 2012, 2022 Author(s): Holger Dengler <hd@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2012, 2021 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner
<brueckner@linux.ibm.com> Thomas Richter <tmricht@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2012, 2018 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner
<brueckner@linux.vnet.ibm.com> Jan Glauber <jang@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2012, 2014
Copyright IBM Corp. 2012, 2013 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner
<brueckner@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2012 Author(s): Sebastian Ott <sebott@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2012 Author(s): Michael Holzheu <holzheu@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2012 Author(s): Jan Glauber <jang@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2012 Author(s): Holger Dengler <hd@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2012
Copyright IBM Corp. 2011 Author(s): Michael Holzheu <holzheu@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2011 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2011 Author(s): Jan Glauber <jang@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2011 Author(s): Gerald Schaefer <gerald.schaefer@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2010, 2017 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner
<brueckner@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2010 Author(s): Michael Holzheu <holzheu@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2010 Author(s): Hendrik Brueckner
<brueckner@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2010
Copyright IBM Corp. 2009,2014
Copyright IBM Corp. 2009, 2017 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com> Hendrik Brueckner <brueckner@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2009, 2017
Copyright IBM Corp. 2009, 2016
Copyright IBM Corp. 2009, 2015
Copyright IBM Corp. 2009, 2011 Author(s): Peter Oberparleiter
<peter.oberparleiter@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2009 Author(s): Peter Oberparleiter
<oberpar@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008, 2020
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008, 2018
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008, 2017
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008, 2014
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008, 2013
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008, 2012 Author(s): Peter Oberparleiter
<peter.oberparleiter@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008, 2012 Author(s): Cornelia Huck
<cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008, 2011
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008, 2009
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008 Authors: Sebastian Ott <sebott@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008 Author(s): Peter Oberparleiter
<peter.oberparleiter@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008 Author(s): Jan Glauber <jang@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008 Author(s): Gerald Schaefer <gerald.schaefer@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2008
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007-2010 Mel Gorman <mel@csn.ul.ie>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007-2008
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007,2020 Author(s): Gerald Schaefer
<gerald.schaefer@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007,2012
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007,2008 Author(s): Christian Borntraeger
<borntraeger@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007, 2020 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com> David Hildenbrand <david@redhat.com> Janosch Frank
<frankja@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007, 2016 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007, 2012 Author(s): Peter Oberparleiter
<peter.oberparleiter@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007, 2011 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007, 2011
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007, 2010 Author(s): Peter Oberparleiter
<peter.oberparleiter@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007, 2009 Author(s): Utz Bacher <utz.bacher@de.ibm.com>,
Frank Pavlic <fpavlic@de.ibm.com>, Thomas Spatzier <tspat@de.ibm.com>, Frank
Blaschka <frank.blaschka@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007, 2009 Author(s): Hongjie Yang <hongjie@us.ibm.com>,
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007, 2007 Authors:	Peter Tiedemann (ptiedem@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007 Authors:	Peter Tiedemann (ptiedem@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007 Author(s): Utz Bacher <utz.bacher@de.ibm.com>, Frank
Pavlic <fpavlic@de.ibm.com>, Thomas Spatzier <tspat@de.ibm.com>, Frank Blaschka
<frank.blaschka@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007 Author(s): Stefan Weinhuber <wein@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007 Author(s): Michael Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007 Author(s): Michael Ernst <mernst@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com),
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007 Author(s): Jan Glauber (jang@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007 Author(s): Frank Pavlic <fpavlic@de.ibm.com>, Thomas
Spatzier <tspat@de.ibm.com>, Frank Blaschka <frank.blaschka@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2007
Copyright IBM Corp. 2006,2014 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
(schwidefsky@de.ibm.com), Gerald Schaefer (gerald.schaefer@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2006, 2021 Author(s): Cornelia Huck
<cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com> Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com> Ralph
Wuerthner <rwuerthn@de.ibm.com> Felix Beck <felix.beck@de.ibm.com> Holger
Dengler <hd@linux.vnet.ibm.com> Harald Freudenberger <freude@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2006, 2019 Author(s): Cornelia Huck
<cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com> Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com> Ralph
Wuerthner <rwuerthn@de.ibm.com> Felix Beck <felix.beck@de.ibm.com> Holger
Dengler <hd@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2006, 2015 Author(s): Jan Glauber <jan.glauber@de.ibm.com>
Harald Freudenberger <freude@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2006, 2010 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2006, 2009
Copyright IBM Corp. 2006, 2008 Author(s): Michael Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2006, 2007 Author(s): Michael Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2006 Author(s): Michael Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2006 Author(s): Melissa Howland <melissah@us.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2006 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2006
Copyright IBM Corp. 2005, 2017 Author(s): Jan Glauber (jang@de.ibm.com)
Sebastian Siewior (sebastian@breakpoint.cc> Patrick Steuer
<patrick.steuer@de.ibm.com> Harald Freudenberger <freude@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2005, 2012 Author(s): Michael Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com>
Volker Sameske <sameske@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2005, 2011 Author(s): Jan Glauber (jang@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2005, 2011
Copyright IBM Corp. 2005 Author(s): Stefan Weinhuber <wein@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2005
Copyright IBM Corp. 2004, 2013 Author(s): Arnd Bergmann (arndb@de.ibm.com)
Philipp Hachtmann (phacht@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2004, 2012 Author(s): Jan Glauber <jan.glauber@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2004, 2011 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>, Holger Smolinski <Holger.Smolinski@de.ibm.com>, Thomas
Spatzier <tspat@de.ibm.com>,
Copyright IBM Corp. 2004, 2010
Copyright IBM Corp. 2004, 2009 Author(s): Xenia Tkatschow <xenia@us.ibm.com>
Stefan Weinhuber <wein@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2004, 2009
Copyright IBM Corp. 2004, 2007 Authors: Belinda Thompson (belindat@us.ibm.com)
Andy Richter (richtera@us.ibm.com) Peter Tiedemann (ptiedem@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2004, 2006 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
(schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2004, 2005 Author(s): Christian Borntraeger
<cborntra@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2004 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2004 All Rights Reserved.
Copyright IBM Corp. 2004 2005
Copyright IBM Corp. 2004
Copyright IBM Corp. 2003, 2017 Author(s): Thomas Spatzier Jan Glauber Harald
Freudenberger (freude@de.ibm.com) Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2003, 2013 Author(s): Michael Holzheu
Copyright IBM Corp. 2003, 2013
Copyright IBM Corp. 2003, 2012
Copyright IBM Corp. 2003, 2011 Author(s): Thomas Spatzier Jan Glauber
(jan.glauber@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2003, 2009
Copyright IBM Corp. 2003, 2008 Author(s): Michael Holzheu
Copyright IBM Corp. 2003, 2008
Copyright IBM Corp. 2003, 2007 Author(s): Thomas Spatzier Jan Glauber
(jan.glauber@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2003, 2006
Copyright IBM Corp. 2003 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com),
Copyright IBM Corp. 2003 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2003
Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2020
Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2012
Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2010
Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2009 Author(s): Cornelia Huck
<cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com> Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com> Peter
Oberparleiter <peter.oberparleiter@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2009
Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2008 Author(s): Cornelia Huck
(cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com) Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2008 Author(s): Arnd Bergmann (arndb@de.ibm.com)
Cornelia Huck (cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com) Martin Schwidefsky
(schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2007 Author(s): Ingo Adlung <adlung@de.ibm.com>
Cornelia Huck <cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com> Arnd Bergmann <arndb@de.ibm.com> Peter
Oberparleiter <peter.oberparleiter@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2006 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
(schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2006
Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2004
Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2003 Author(s): Arnd Bergmann (arndb@de.ibm.com)
Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2002 Author(s): Cornelia Huck (cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com)
Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001,2008
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2022 Author(s): Robert Burroughs Eric Rossman
(edrossma@us.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2019 Author(s): Robert Burroughs Eric Rossman
(edrossma@us.ibm.com) Cornelia Huck <cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2018 Author(s): Robert Burroughs Eric Rossman
(edrossma@us.ibm.com) Cornelia Huck <cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2018 Author(s): Robert Burroughs Eric Rossman
(edrossma@us.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2018
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2012 Author(s): Robert Burroughs Eric Rossman
(edrossma@us.ibm.com) Cornelia Huck <cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2012 Author(s): Robert Burroughs Eric Rossman
(edrossma@us.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2012
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2009 Authors: Malcolm Beattie <beattiem@uk.ibm.com>
Michael Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com> Frank Munzert <munzert@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2009 Author(s): Ulrich Weigand
<Ulrich.Weigand@de.ibm.com>, Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>,
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2009 Author(s): Stefan Bader <shbader@de.ibm.com>
Michael Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com> Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2009 Author(s): Fritz Elfert (felfert@millenux.com)
Dieter Wellerdiek (wel@de.ibm.com) Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Denis Joseph Barrow (barrow_dj@yahoo.com) Jochen Roehrig (roehrig@de.ibm.com)
Cornelia Huck <cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com> Belinda Thompson (belindat@us.ibm.com)
Andy Richter (richtera@us.ibm.com) Peter Tiedemann (ptiedem@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2009 Author(s): Carsten Otte <cotte@de.ibm.com> Tuan
Ngo-Anh <ngoanh@de.ibm.com> Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com> Stefan
Bader <shbader@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2009 Author(s): Carsten Otte <cotte@de.ibm.com> Tuan
Ngo-Anh <ngoanh@de.ibm.com> Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2009 Author(s): Carsten Otte <cotte@de.ibm.com>
Michael Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com> Tuan Ngo-Anh <ngoanh@de.ibm.com> Martin
Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com> Stefan Bader <shbader@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2009
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2008
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2007 Authors: Malcolm Beattie <beattiem@uk.ibm.com>
Michael Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com> Frank Munzert <munzert@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2007 Authors: Fritz Elfert (felfert@millenux.com)
Peter Tiedemann (ptiedem@de.ibm.com) Belinda Thompson (belindat@us.ibm.com) Andy
Richter (richtera@us.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2007 Authors:	Peter Tiedemann (ptiedem@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2007 Authors: Fritz Elfert (felfert@millenux.com)
Peter Tiedemann (ptiedem@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2007 Author(s): Martin Peschke <mpeschke@de.ibm.com>
Michael Ernst <mernst@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2006 Author(s): Stefan Bader <shbader@de.ibm.com>
Michael Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com> Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2006 Author(s): Robert Burroughs Eric Rossman
(edrossma@us.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2006 Author(s): Michael Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2006 Author(s): Carsten Otte <cotte@de.ibm.com> Tuan
Ngo-Anh <ngoanh@de.ibm.com> Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2006 Author(s): Carsten Otte <cotte@de.ibm.com>
Michael Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com> Tuan Ngo-Anh <ngoanh@de.ibm.com> Martin
Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2002 Author(s): Carsten Otte <cotte@de.ibm.com>
Michael Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com> Tuan Ngo-Anh <ngoanh@de.ibm.com> Martin
Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com> Stefan Bader <shbader@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001 Author(s): Fritz Elfert <felfert@millenux.com>
<elfert@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2001 Author(s): Carsten Otte <cotte@de.ibm.com> Michael
Holzheu <holzheu@de.ibm.com> Tuan Ngo-Anh <ngoanh@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2000, 2009 Author(s): Utz Bacher <utz.bacher@de.ibm.com> Jan
Glauber <jang@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2000, 2009 Author(s): Utz Bacher <utz.bacher@de.ibm.com>
Cornelia Huck <cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com> Jan Glauber <jang@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2000, 2009 Author(s): Ingo Adlung <adlung@de.ibm.com>,
Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>, Cornelia Huck
<cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com>,
Copyright IBM Corp. 2000, 2009 Author(s): Hartmut Penner <hp@de.ibm.com>, Martin
Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>, Christian Ehrhardt <ehrhardt@de.ibm.com>,
Copyright IBM Corp. 2000, 2008 Author(s): Utz Bacher <utz.bacher@de.ibm.com> Jan
Glauber <jang@linux.vnet.ibm.com> Cornelia Huck <cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2000, 2008 Author(s): Utz Bacher <utz.bacher@de.ibm.com> Jan
Glauber <jang@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 2000, 2006 Author(s): Denis Joseph Barrow
(djbarrow@de.ibm.com,barrow_dj@yahoo.com) Gerhard Tonn (ton@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2000, 2006
Copyright IBM Corp. 2000, 2001
Copyright IBM Corp. 2000 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com),
Gerhard Tonn (ton@de.ibm.com) Thomas Spatzier (tspat@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 2000
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999,2013
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999,2012 Author(s): Ingo Adlung (adlung@de.ibm.com)
Cornelia Huck (cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com) Arnd Bergmann (arndb@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999,2012
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999,2001
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2020
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2017
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2016 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>, Denis Joseph Barrow, Arnd Bergmann,
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2016
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2013 Author(s): Ingo Adlung (adlung@de.ibm.com)
Cornelia Huck (cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com) Arnd Bergmann (arndb@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2013
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2012 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
(schwidefsky@de.ibm.com), Hartmut Penner (hp@de.ibm.com), Denis Joseph Barrow
(djbarrow@de.ibm.com,barrow_dj@yahoo.com),
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2012 Author(s): Hartmut Penner (hp@de.ibm.com), Martin
Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2012 Author(s): Hartmut Penner <hp@de.ibm.com>, Martin
Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>, Denis Joseph Barrow,
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2012 Author(s): Denis Joseph Barrow, Martin
Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>,
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2012
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2011
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2010 Author(s): Denis Joseph Barrow Martin Schwidefsky
(schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2010 Author(s): Cornelia Huck
(cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com) Arnd Bergmann (arndb@de.ibm.com) Peter Oberparleiter
<peter.oberparleiter@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2010
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2009 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>, Hartmut Penner <hp@de.ibm.com>, Denis Joseph Barrow,
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2009 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2009 Author(s): Martin Peschke <mpeschke@de.ibm.com>
Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2009 Author(s): DJ Barrow
<djbarrow@de.ibm.com,barrow_dj@yahoo.com> Frank Pavlic <fpavlic@de.ibm.com> and
Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2009
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2008 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>,
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2008 Author(s): Ingo Adlung (adlung@de.ibm.com)
Cornelia Huck (cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com) Arnd Bergmann (arndb@de.ibm.com) Martin
Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2008 Author(s): Hartmut Penner (hp@de.ibm.com), Martin
Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com), Denis Joseph Barrow
(djbarrow@de.ibm.com,barrow_dj@yahoo.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2007 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
(schwidefsky@de.ibm.com), Christian Borntraeger (cborntra@de.ibm.com),
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2007 Author(s): Ingo Adlung <adlung@de.ibm.com>
Cornelia Huck <cornelia.huck@de.ibm.com> Arnd Bergmann <arndb@de.ibm.com> Peter
Oberparleiter <peter.oberparleiter@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2006 Author(s): Denis Joseph Barrow
(djbarrow@de.ibm.com,barrow_dj@yahoo.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2004 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com> Peter Oberparleiter <peter.oberparleiter@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2002
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2001
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2000 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
(schwidefsky@de.ibm.com), Thomas Spatzier (tspat@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2000 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
(schwidefsky@de.ibm.com), Denis Joseph Barrow
(djbarrow@de.ibm.com,barrow_dj@yahoo.com),
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2000 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
(schwidefsky@de.ibm.com), Denis Joseph Barrow
(djbarrow@de.ibm.com,barrow_dj@yahoo.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2000 Author(s): Hartmut Penner (hp@de.ibm.com), Martin
Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2000 Author(s): Hartmut Penner (hp@de.ibm.com) Ulrich
Weigand (weigand@de.ibm.com) Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2000 Author(s): Hartmut Penner (hp@de.ibm.com) Martin
Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2000 Author(s): Hartmut Penner (hp@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2000 Author(s): Denis Joseph Barrow
(djbarrow@de.ibm.com,barrow_dj@yahoo.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999, 2000
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999 Author(s): Ulrich Hild Martin Schwidefsky D.J. Barrow
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com),
Christian Borntraeger (cborntra@de.ibm.com),
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com),
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Martin Peschke <peschke@fh-brandenburg.de>
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999 Author(s): Martin Peschke <mpeschke@de.ibm.com> Martin
Schwidefsky <schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999 Author(s): Hartmut Penner (hp@de.ibm.com), Martin
Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999 Author(s): Hartmut Penner (hp@de.ibm.com) Ulrich
Weigand (uweigand@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999 Author(s): Hartmut Penner (hp@de.ibm.com)
Copyright IBM Corp. 1999
Copyright IBM Corp.
Copyright IBM Corp 2019
Copyright IBM Corp 2003, 2010 Author(s): Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>,
Copyright IBM Corp 2000, 2011 Author(s): Holger Smolinski
<Holger.Smolinski@de.ibm.com>, Denis Joseph Barrow,
Copyright IBM Corp
Copyright IBM 2015
Copyright Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com> for Red Hat, Inc. 2013 - 2016
Copyright Gavin Shan, IBM Corporation 2016.
Copyright Gavin Shan, IBM Corporation 2014.
Copyright Freescale Semiconductor, Inc 2006
Copyright FUJITSU LIMITED 2010
Copyright Everest Semiconductor Co.,Ltd
Copyright Everest Semiconductor Co., Ltd
Copyright Echo Digital Audio Corporation (c) 1998 - 2005 All rights reserved
www.echoaudio.com
Copyright Echo Digital Audio Corporation (c) 1998 - 2004 All rights reserved
www.echoaudio.com
Copyright EMC Corporation, 2008 Author Nigel Hislop <hislop_nigel@emc.com>
Copyright Digital Equipment Corporation 1996.
Copyright Dave Engebretsen & Todd Inglett 2001
Copyright Darryl Miles G7LED (dlm@g7led.demon.co.uk)
Copyright Collabora Ltd., 2021
Copyright Cavium, Inc. (C) 2015-2017. All rights reserved.
Copyright C 2016, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright Benjamin Herrenschmidt & Gavin Shan, IBM Corporation 2013.
Copyright Benjamin Herrenschmidt & Gavin Shan, IBM Corporation 2012.
Copyright Benjamin Herrenschmidt & Gavin Shan, IBM Corporation 2011.
Copyright Axis Communications AB
Copyright AudioScience, Inc., 2003
Copyright Andreas Neuhaus <andy AT fasta.fh-dortmund.de> http://www.stud.fh-
dortmund.de/~andy/wvlan/
Copyright Andreas Eversberg (jolly@eversberg.eu)
Copyright Amazon.com Inc. or its affiliates.
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) 2016. All rights reserved.
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) 2015. All rights reserved.
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) 2014. All rights reserved.
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) 2014-2016. All rights reserved.
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) 2013. All rights reserved
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) 2013-2015. All rights reserved
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) 2013-2014. All rights reserved
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) 2012-2014. All rights reserved.
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) <2015>. All rights reserved
Copyright Altera Corporation (C) <2014>. All rights reserved
Copyright Alistair Popple, IBM Corporation 2014.
Copyright Alan Cox GW4PTS (alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk)
Copyright Adrian McMenamin adrian@mcmen.demon.co.uk> 2006
Copyright Adrian McMenamin 2005, 2006, 2007 adrian@mcmen.demon.co.uk>
Copyright Acxiom Corporation, 2005.
Copyright ASPEED Technology
Copyright : Ian Molton <spyro@f2s.com> Andrew Zabolotny <zap@homelink.ru>
Russell King <rmk@arm.linux.org.uk>
Copyright : Ian Molton <spyro@f2s.com> Andrew Zabolotny <zap@homelink.ru>
Copyright 31 August 2008 James Bottomley
Copyright 2022-23 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2022, The Chromium OS Authors. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2022, Pratik Rajesh Sampat, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2022, Nicholas Miehlbradt, IBM Corporation
Copyright 2022, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2022, Madhavan Srinivasan, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2022, Kajol Jain, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2022, Christophe Leroy, CS GROUP France
Copyright 2022, Athira Rajeev, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2022 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright 2022 William Breathitt Gray
Copyright 2022 Unisoc Inc.
Copyright 2022 Toradex
Copyright 2022 The Chromium OS Authors
Copyright 2022 Sven Schwermer <sven.schwermer@disruptive-technologies.com>
Copyright 2022 Sony Group Corporation
Copyright 2022 Sean Anderson <sean.anderson@seco.com>
Copyright 2022 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2022 Red Hat Inc. Authors: Javier Martinez Canillas
<javierm@redhat.com>
Copyright 2022 Red Hat Inc. Author: Javier Martinez Canillas
<javierm@redhat.com>
Copyright 2022 Quanta Corp.
Copyright 2022 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2022 Noralf Trønnes
Copyright 2022 NXP, Peng Fan <peng.fan@nxp.com>
Copyright 2022 NXP Peng Fan <peng.fan@nxp.com>
Copyright 2022 NXP Frank Li <Frank.Li@nxp.com> Peng Fan <peng.fan@nxp.com>
Copyright 2022 NXP Author: Xavier Roumegue (xavier.roumegue@oss.nxp.com)
Copyright 2022 NXP
Copyright 2022 Ming Lei <ming.lei@redhat.com>
Copyright 2022 Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2022 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright 2022 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2022 Jack Doan <me@jackdoan.com>
Copyright 2022 Intel Corporation.
Copyright 2022 Innovative Advantage Inc.
Copyright 2022 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2022 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2022 Google LLC.
Copyright 2022 Google LLC Author: Ard Biesheuvel <ardb@google.com>
Copyright 2022 Google LLC
Copyright 2022 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2022 Frank Zago
Copyright 2022 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2022 Bytedance CO., LTD.
Copyright 2022 Broadcom Ltd.
Copyright 2022 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2021~2022 NXP
Copyright 2021-2022 TQ-Systems GmbH Author: Alexander Stein <alexander.stein@tq-
group.com>
Copyright 2021-2022 Pawel Dembicki <paweldembicki@gmail.com>
Copyright 2021-2022 NXP
Copyright 2021-2022 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright 2021-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2021-2022 Innovative Advantage Inc.
Copyright 2021-2022 Deqx Pty Ltd Author: Matt R Flax <flatmax@flatmax.com>
Copyright 2021-2022 Deqx Pty Ltd Author: Matt Flax <flatmax@flatmax.com>
Copyright 2021, Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2021, Dario Binacchi <dariobin@libero.it>
Copyright 2021, Collabora Ltd.
Copyright 2021, Athira Rajeev, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2021, Arm Ltd
Copyright 2021, 2022 Innovative Advantage Inc.
Copyright 2021 dvanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2021 Zev Weiss <zev@bewilderbeest.net>
Copyright 2021 Xillybus Ltd, http://xillybus.com
Copyright 2021 Xillybus Ltd, http://www.xillybus.com
Copyright 2021 Wan Jiabing<wanjiabing@vivo.com>
Copyright 2021 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2021 VMware, Inc.
Copyright 2021 Toradex
Copyright 2021 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2021 Red Hat Inc., Durham, North Carolina. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2021 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2021 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Derek Fang
<derek.fang@realtek.com>
Copyright 2021 Realtek Microelectronics Author: Derek Fang
<derek.fang@realtek.com>
Copyright 2021 Realtek Microelectronics
Copyright 2021 ROHM Semiconductors. Author: Matti Vaittinen
<matti.vaittinen@fi.rohmeurope.com>
Copyright 2021 ROHM Semiconductors.
Copyright 2021 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2021 Nuvoton Technology Corp. Author: John Hsu <kchsu0@nuvoton.com>
Co-author: Seven Lee <wtli@nuvoton.com>
Copyright 2021 Nicolas Saenz Julienne <nsaenzjulienne@suse.de>
Copyright 2021 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2021 NXP
Copyright 2021 Microsoft
Copyright 2021 Marvell. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2021 Lukasz Majewski, DENX Software Engineering, lukma@denx.de
Copyright 2021 Lucas Stach <dev@lynxeye.de>
Copyright 2021 Linaro, Rui Miguel Silva <rui.silva@linaro.org>
Copyright 2021 Linaro, Rui Miguel Silva
Copyright 2021 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2021 Linaro Limited
Copyright 2021 Lauri Kasanen
Copyright 2021 Jonathan Neuschäfer
Copyright 2021 Jonathan Cameron <Jonathan.Cameron@huawei.com>
Copyright 2021 Joel Stanley, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2021 Inventec Corp.
Copyright 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2021 Ideas on Board Oy
Copyright 2021 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2021 Herve Codina <herve.codina@bootlin.com>
Copyright 2021 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2021 Google LLC.
Copyright 2021 Google LLC Contributed by Stephane Eranian <eranian@google.com>
Copyright 2021 Google LLC Author: Daeho Jeong <daehojeong@google.com>
Copyright 2021 Google LLC
Copyright 2021 Google Inc.
Copyright 2021 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2021 Dillon Min <dillon.minfei@gmail.com>
Copyright 2021 Connected Cars A/S
Copyright 2021 Conley Lee Conley Lee <conleylee@foxmail.com>
Copyright 2021 Collabora ltd.
Copyright 2021 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright 2021 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2021 Ban Tao <fengzheng923@gmail.com>
Copyright 2021 BSH Hausgeraete GmbH
Copyright 2021 Arm Ltd.
Copyright 2021 Arm Limited
Copyright 2021 Andreas Kemnade
Copyright 2021 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2021 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2021 Allied Telesis Labs
Copyright 2021 Aleksa Savic <savicaleksa83@gmail.com>
Copyright 2021 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright 2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2021 ARM Ltd.
Copyright 2021 - Dillon Min <dillon.minfei@gmail.com>
Copyright 2021 - Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2020-21 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2020-21 Cadence
Copyright 2020-2022 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright 2020-2022 NXP
Copyright 2020-2022 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2020-2022 Bootlin Author: Paul Kocialkowski
<paul.kocialkowski@bootlin.com>
Copyright 2020-2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2020-2021 TQ-Systems GmbH
Copyright 2020-2021 NXP
Copyright 2020-2021 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2020-2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Authors: Shyam Sundar S K
<Shyam-sundar.S-k@amd.com> Sandeep Singh <Sandeep.singh@amd.com> Basavaraj
Natikar <Basavaraj.Natikar@amd.com>
Copyright 2020-2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Authors: Nehal Bakulchandra
Shah <Nehal-bakulchandra.shah@amd.com> Sandeep Singh <sandeep.singh@amd.com>
Basavaraj Natikar <Basavaraj.Natikar@amd.com>
Copyright 2020-2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Authors: Nehal Bakulchandra
Shah <Nehal-bakulchandra.shah@amd.com> Sandeep Singh <Sandeep.singh@amd.com>
Basavaraj Natikar <Basavaraj.Natikar@amd.com>
Copyright 2020-2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Authors: Nehal Bakulchandra
Shah <Nehal-Bakulchandra.Shah@amd.com> Sandeep Singh <sandeep.singh@amd.com>
Basavaraj Natikar <Basavaraj.Natikar@amd.com>
Copyright 2020-2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Authors: Nehal Bakulchandra
Shah <Nehal-Bakulchandra.Shah@amd.com> Sandeep Singh <Sandeep.singh@amd.com>
Basavaraj Natikar <Basavaraj.Natikar@amd.com>
Copyright 2020-2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2020,2022 NXP
Copyright 2020, Sandipan Das, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2020, Jordan Niethe, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2020, Gustavo Luiz Duarte, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2020, Compass Electronics Group, LLC
Copyright 2020, Brian Geffon <bgeffon@google.com>
Copyright 2020, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2020, Alistair Popple, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2020, 2022 Sony Corporation
Copyright 2020 thingy.jp.
Copyright 2020 Xillybus Ltd, http://xillybus.com
Copyright 2020 Unisoc Inc.
Copyright 2020 Toshiba Electronic Devices & Storage Corporation
Copyright 2020 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2020 Red Hat, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright 2020 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2020 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Oder Chiou
<oder_chiou@realtek.com>
Copyright 2020 Realtek Microelectronics
Copyright 2020 ROHM Semiconductors
Copyright 2020 Qiang Yu <yuq825@gmail.com>
Copyright 2020 Puresoftware Ltd.
Copyright 2020 Protonic Holland
Copyright 2020 Pawel Dembicki <paweldembicki@gmail.com>
Copyright 2020 Paul Mackerras (paulus@ozlabs.org), IBM Corp.
Copyright 2020 Paul Kocialkowski <contact@paulk.fr>
Copyright 2020 Pascal Roeleven <dev@pascalroeleven.nl>
Copyright 2020 Nuvoton Technology Crop.
Copyright 2020 Noralf Trønnes
Copyright 2020 NXP.
Copyright 2020 NXP Lynx
Copyright 2020 NXP Author: Wolfram Sang <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2020 NXP
Copyright 2020 Monolithic Power Systems, Inc
Copyright 2020 Michael Walle <michael@walle.cc>
Copyright 2020 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright 2020 Maxim Integrated
Copyright 2020 Mauro Rossi <issor.oruam@gmail.com>
Copyright 2020 Mathieu Othacehe <m.othacehe@gmail.com>
Copyright 2020 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright 2020 Madhavan Srinivasan, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2020 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright 2020 Linutronix GmbH Author: Benedikt Spranger
<b.spranger@linutronix.de>
Copyright 2020 Linaro Ltd. 
Copyright 2020 Linaro Limited
Copyright 2020 Kévin L'hôpital <kevin.lhopital@bootlin.com>
Copyright 2020 Kontron Europe GmbH
Copyright 2020 Kamlesh Gurudasani <kamlesh.gurudasani@gmail.com>
Copyright 2020 Jonathan Neuschäfer <j.neuschaefer@gmx.net>
Copyright 2020 Jonathan Neuschäfer
Copyright 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2020 IBM Corporation
Copyright 2020 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2020 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2020 Google LLC. Julius Werner <jwerner@chromium.org>
Copyright 2020 Google LLC. Author: Sean O'Brien <seobrien@chromium.org>
Copyright 2020 Google LLC.
Copyright 2020 Google LLC Author: Vipin Sharma <vipinsh@google.com>
Copyright 2020 Google LLC Author: Akshat Jain <akshatzen@google.com>
Copyright 2020 Google LLC
Copyright 2020 Google Inc.
Copyright 2020 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2020 GRATE-driver project.
Copyright 2020 GRATE-driver project
Copyright 2020 DisplayLink (UK) Ltd.
Copyright 2020 Delta LLC.
Copyright 2020 Dan Robertson <dan@dlrobertson.com>
Copyright 2020 Compass Electronics Group, LLC
Copyright 2020 Coly Li <colyli@suse.de>
Copyright 2020 Christophe Leroy <christophe.leroy@csgroup.eu> CS GROUP France
Copyright 2020 Cerno
Copyright 2020 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright 2020 Broadcom
Copyright 2020 Bootlin Author: Paul Kocialkowski <paul.kocialkowski@bootlin.com>
Copyright 2020 BayLibre, SAS
Copyright 2020 Athira Rajeev, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2020 Arm Ltd.
Copyright 2020 Arm Limited
Copyright 2020 Antmicro <www.antmicro.com>
Copyright 2020 Andreas Kemnade
Copyright 2020 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2020 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2020 Alexandru Lazar
Copyright 2020 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2020 - 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2019~2020, 2022 NXP
Copyright 2019~2020 NXP
Copyright 2019-2022, Daniel Axtens, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2019-2022 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright 2019-2022 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright 2019-2022 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2019-2022 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2019-2021, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2019-2021 Traverse Technologies
Copyright 2019-2021 TQ-Systems GmbH
Copyright 2019-2021 NXP Zhou Guoniu <guoniu.zhou@nxp.com>
Copyright 2019-2021 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2019-2021 NXP
Copyright 2019-2021 MNT Research GmbH
Copyright 2019-2021 Jonas Malaco <jonas@protocubo.io>
Copyright 2019-2021 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2019-2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2019-2020, The Linux Foundation, All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2019-2020 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright 2019-2020 Variscite Ltd.
Copyright 2019-2020 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2019-2020 NXP Author: German Rivera <German.Rivera@freescale.com>
Copyright 2019-2020 NXP
Copyright 2019-2020 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2019-2020 Artur Rojek
Copyright 2019-2020 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2019--2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2019,2020,2022 NXP
Copyright 2019,2020 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright 2019, The Chromium OS Authors. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2019, Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright 2019, Nick Piggin, Gautham R. Shenoy, Aneesh Kumar K.V, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2019, Michael Neuling, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2019, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2019, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2019, IBM Corporation
Copyright 2019, Hari Bathini, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2019, Gustavo Romero, Michael Neuling, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2019, 2020 Google LLC.
Copyright 2019, 2020 Cloudflare
Copyright 2019, 2020 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2019 dvanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2019 YADRO
Copyright 2019 Vladimir Oltean <olteanv@gmail.com>
Copyright 2019 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2019 Unisoc Inc.
Copyright 2019 Toradex
Copyright 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright 2019 SolidRun Ltd.
Copyright 2019 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2019 Socionext Inc. Author: Kunihiko Hayashi
<hayashi.kunihiko@socionext.com>
Copyright 2019 Renato Lui Geh
Copyright 2019 Red Hat, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright 2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2019 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2019 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Oder Chiou
<oder_chiou@realtek.com>
Copyright 2019 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Jack Yu <jack.yu@realtek.com>
Copyright 2019 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Derek Fang
<derek.fang@realtek.com>
Copyright 2019 Realtek Semiconductor Corp.
Copyright 2019 Raptor Engineering, LLC
Copyright 2019 Qtechnology A/S 2019 Ricardo Ribalda <ribalda@kernel.org>
Copyright 2019 Pursim SPC
Copyright 2019 Purism SPC
Copyright 2019 Pengutronix, Marco Felsch <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2019 Ondrej Zary
Copyright 2019 Ondrej Jirman <megous@megous.com>
Copyright 2019 NXP.
Copyright 2019 NXP Author: Daniel Baluta <daniel.baluta@nxp.com>
Copyright 2019 NXP 
Copyright 2019 NXP
Copyright 2019 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright 2019 Monolithic Power Systems, Inc
Copyright 2019 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright 2019 Marvell. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2019 Marcus Folkesson <marcus.folkesson@gmail.com>
Copyright 2019 Manivannan Sadhasivam <mani@kernel.org>
Copyright 2019 Madhavan Srinivasan, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2019 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright 2019 Linaro, Ltd., Rob Herring <robh@kernel.org>
Copyright 2019 Linaro, Ltd, Rob Herring <robh@kernel.org>
Copyright 2019 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2019 Legrand AV Inc.
Copyright 2019 Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright 2019 Jonathan Neuschäfer
Copyright 2019 Jonathan Corbet <corbet@lwn.net>
Copyright 2019 Intel Corporation.
Copyright 2019 Intel Corporation, Inc.
Copyright 2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2019 Inspur Corp.
Copyright 2019 Ilia Mirkin
Copyright 2019 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright 2019 IBM Corporation
Copyright 2019 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2019 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2019 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2019 Google, LLC
Copyright 2019 Google, Inc.
Copyright 2019 Google, Inc
Copyright 2019 Google LLC.
Copyright 2019 Google LLC
Copyright 2019 Google Inc
Copyright 2019 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2019 Finn Thain
Copyright 2019 Einfochips
Copyright 2019 Dan Robertson <dan@dlrobertson.com>
Copyright 2019 Collabora ltd.
Copyright 2019 Collabora Ltd
Copyright 2019 Cadence
Copyright 2019 Broadcom.
Copyright 2019 Broadcom Ltd.
Copyright 2019 Bootlin
Copyright 2019 BayLibre, SAS
Copyright 2019 BayLibre SAS
Copyright 2019 Armadeus Systems <support@armadeus.com>
Copyright 2019 Arm Limited Authors: Mark Rutland <mark.rutland@arm.com> Amit
Daniel Kachhap <amit.kachhap@arm.com>
Copyright 2019 Arm Limited Author: Andrew Murray <Andrew.Murray@arm.com>
Copyright 2019 Annaliese McDermond
Copyright 2019 Andreas Kemnade 
Copyright 2019 Analogix Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2019 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2019 American Megatrends International LLC.
Copyright 2019 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2019 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2019 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2019 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2019 ARM Ltd.
Copyright 2019 ARM Limited
Copyright 2019 (C) Pengutronix, Marco Felsch <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2018-2022 Toradex
Copyright 2018-2022 TQ-Systems GmbH Author: Markus Niebel <Markus.Niebel@tq-
group.com>
Copyright 2018-2022 TQ Systems GmbH Author: Markus Niebel <Markus.Niebel@tq-
group.com>
Copyright 2018-2022 Broadcom Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2018-2022 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2018-2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2018-2022	Intel Corporation
Copyright 2018-2021 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2018-2021 NXP
Copyright 2018-2021 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2018-2021 General Electric Company
Copyright 2018-2021 Collabora
Copyright 2018-2021 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2018-2020, 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2018-2020 Purism SPC
Copyright 2018-2020 NXP.
Copyright 2018-2020 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2018-2020 NXP
Copyright 2018-2020 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2018-2020 Broadcom.
Copyright 2018-2020 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2018-2019 Qiang Yu <yuq825@gmail.com>
Copyright 2018-2019 Purism SPC
Copyright 2018-2019 NXP.
Copyright 2018-2019 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2018-2019 NXP
Copyright 2018-2019 IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2018-2019 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2018, Thiago Jung Bauermann, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2018, Socionext Inc. Author: Kunihiko Hayashi
<hayashi.kunihiko@socionext.com>
Copyright 2018, Red Hat, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright 2018, Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright 2018, Murilo Opsfelder Araujo, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2018, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2018, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2018, Jann Horn <jannh@google.com>
Copyright 2018, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2018, Christophe Leroy CS S.I. christophe.leroy@c-s.fr>
Copyright 2018, Breno Leitao, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2018, Breno Leitao, Gustavo Romero, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2018, Anton Blanchard, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2018, 2020 NXP
Copyright 2018, 2019 Cisco Systems
Copyright 2018 Wandboard, Org.
Copyright 2018 Tempo Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Steven Eckhoff
<steven.eckhoff.opensource@gmail.com>
Copyright 2018 Technexion Ltd.
Copyright 2018 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2018 Socionext Inc. Author: Kunihiko Hayashi
<hayashi.kunihiko@socionext.com>
Copyright 2018 SiFive, Inc.
Copyright 2018 Sebastian Reichel
Copyright 2018 SUSE Linux. Author: Coly Li <colyli@suse.de>
Copyright 2018 SUSE Linux GmbH
Copyright 2018 Renesas Electronics Europe Ltd.
Copyright 2018 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2018 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Shuming Fan
<shumingf@realtek.com>
Copyright 2018 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Bard Liao
<bardliao@realtek.com>
Copyright 2018 Realtek Microelectronics Author: Bard Liao <bardliao@realtek.com>
Copyright 2018 Realtek Microelectronics
Copyright 2018 Qtechnology A/S
Copyright 2018 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz> Milo Kim <milo.kim@ti.com>
Copyright 2018 Omnibond Systems, L.L.C.
Copyright 2018 Noralf Trønnes
Copyright 2018 Nick Piggin, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2018 NXP. Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2018 NXP.
Copyright 2018 NXP Semiconductors
Copyright 2018 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2018 NXP Author: Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2018 NXP
Copyright 2018 Mesih Kilinc <mesihkilinc@gmail.com>
Copyright 2018 Maxime Roussin-Belanger <maxime.roussinbelanger@gmail.com>
Copyright 2018 Marty E. Plummer <hanetzer@startmail.com>
Copyright 2018 Luxul Inc.
Copyright 2018 Lukasz Majewski, DENX Software Engineering, lukma@denx.de
Copyright 2018 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright 2018 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2018 Linaro Limited
Copyright 2018 Ladislav Michl <ladis@linux-mips.org>
Copyright 2018 Konsulko Group
Copyright 2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2018 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright 2018 IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2018 IBM Corporation Author: Anshuman Khandual
<khandual@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2018 IBM Corporation
Copyright 2018 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2018 IBM Corp
Copyright 2018 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2018 Hannes Reinecke, SUSE Linux GmbH <hare@suse.com>
Copyright 2018 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2018 Google, Inc.
Copyright 2018 Google, Inc
Copyright 2018 Google LLC. Tomasz Figa <tfiga@chromium.org>
Copyright 2018 Google LLC.
Copyright 2018 Google LLC
Copyright 2018 Google Inc. Author: Soheil Hassas Yeganeh (soheil@google.com)
Copyright 2018 Google Inc. Author: Eric Dumazet (edumazet@google.com)
Copyright 2018 Einfochips
Copyright 2018 Digi International, Inc.
Copyright 2018 David Lechner <david@lechnology.com>
Copyright 2018 DEVIALET
Copyright 2018 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2018 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2018 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright 2018 Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
Copyright 2018 Broadcom
Copyright 2018 Boundary Devices
Copyright 2018 Bharata B Rao, IBM Corp. <bharata@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright 2018 Arm Limited Author: Dave Martin <Dave.Martin@arm.com>
Copyright 2018 Arcx Inc
Copyright 2018 Anshuman Khandual, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2018 Angelo Dureghello <angelo@sysam.it>
Copyright 2018 Andrej Shadura <andrew@shadura.me>
Copyright 2018 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2018 Alexander Monakov <amonakov@gmail.com>
Copyright 2018 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2018 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2018 (C) Pengutronix, Michael Grzeschik <mgr@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2017~2018 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2017~2018 NXP Author: Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2017~2018 NXP
Copyright 2017-2022 Toradex
Copyright 2017-2022 Broadcom Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2017-2021 NXP
Copyright 2017-2021 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2017-2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2017-2020,2022 NXP
Copyright 2017-2020 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2017-2020 NXP
Copyright 2017-2020 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2017-2019, Intel Corporation.
Copyright 2017-2019 Qiang Yu <yuq825@gmail.com> 
Copyright 2017-2019 Qiang Yu <yuq825@gmail.com>
Copyright 2017-2019 NXP
Copyright 2017-2018 Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright 2017-2018 Qiang Yu <yuq825@gmail.com>
Copyright 2017-2018 NXP Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2017-2018 NXP Author: Dong Aisheng <aisheng.dong@nxp.com>
Copyright 2017-2018 NXP Anson Huang <Anson.Huang@nxp.com>
Copyright 2017-2018 NXP
Copyright 2017-2018 Jacopo Mondi <jacopo+renesas@jmondi.org>
Copyright 2017-2018 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2017-2018 Cadence
Copyright 2017,2018 NXP
Copyright 2017, Ram Pai, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2017, Nicholas Piggin, IBM Corporation
Copyright 2017, Michael Neuling, IBM Corp. Breno Leitao <brenohl@br.ibm.com> &
Gustavo Bueno Romero <gromero@br.ibm.com> Michael Neuling
Copyright 2017, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2017, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2017, Matt Brown, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2017, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2017, Gustavo Romero, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2017, Gustavo Romero, Breno Leitao, Cyril Bur, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2017, Daniel Axtens, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2017, Anshuman Khandual, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2017, Anju T, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2017 by Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright 2017 Valve Corporation
Copyright 2017 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2017 VMware Inc. Steven Rostedt Changbin Du <changbin.du@intel.com>
Copyright 2017 VMware Inc. Author: Steven Rostedt <srostedt@goodmis.org>
Copyright 2017 Tim Harvey <tharvey@gateworks.com>
Copyright 2017 Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright 2017 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright 2017 Texas Instruments
Copyright 2017 Tempo Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Steven Eckhoff
<steven.eckhoff.opensource@gmail.com>
Copyright 2017 SiFive
Copyright 2017 Savoir-faire Linux
Copyright 2017 Savoir-Faire Linux
Copyright 2017 Samuel Holland <samuel@sholland.org>
Copyright 2017 STMicroelectronics Inc.
Copyright 2017 Roman Yeryomin <roman@advem.lv>
Copyright 2017 Rhys Kidd
Copyright 2017 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2017 Red Hat
Copyright 2017 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Bard Liao
<bardliao@realtek.com>
Copyright 2017 Realtek Semiconductor Corp.
Copyright 2017 Priit Laes
Copyright 2017 Peter Meerwald-Stadler <pmeerw@pmeerw.net>
Copyright 2017 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp. <paulus@au1.ibm.com>
Copyright 2017 Omnibond Systems, L.L.C.
Copyright 2017 Olimex Ltd. Stefan Mavrodiev <stefan@olimex.com>
Copyright 2017 Nuvoton Technology Crop.
Copyright 2017 Noralf Trønnes
Copyright 2017 NXP Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2017 NXP
Copyright 2017 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright 2017 Maxime Roussin-Bélanger expanded by Silvan Murer
<silvan.murer@gmail.com>
Copyright 2017 Manivannan Sadhasivam <manivannanece23@gmail.com>
Copyright 2017 Luxul Inc.
Copyright 2017 Lukasz Majewski, DENX Software Engineering, lukma@denx.de
Copyright 2017 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2017 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2017 Karol Herbst
Copyright 2017 John Sperbeck
Copyright 2017 Joel Stanley <joel@jms.id.au>
Copyright 2017 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright 2017 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2017 Impinj, Inc Author: Andrey Smirnov <andrew.smirnov@gmail.com>
Copyright 2017 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright 2017 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright 2017 IBM Corporation
Copyright 2017 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2017 Hannes Reinecke, SUSE Linux GmbH <hare@suse.com>
Copyright 2017 Google, Inc.
Copyright 2017 Google, Inc
Copyright 2017 Google LLC
Copyright 2017 Google Inc.
Copyright 2017 Google Inc
Copyright 2017 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2017 Free Electrons
Copyright 2017 David Lechner <david@lechnology.com>
Copyright 2017 Daniel Axtens, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2017 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright 2017 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2017 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2017 Cirrus Logic
Copyright 2017 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright 2017 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright 2017 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright 2017 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright 2017 CS Systemes d'Information.
Copyright 2017 Broadcom. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2017 Broadcom
Copyright 2017 Boundary Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2017 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2017 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corporation
Copyright 2017 Ben Whitten <ben.whitten@gmail.com>
Copyright 2017 Beckhoff Automation GmbH & Co. KG
Copyright 2017 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright 2017 Armadeus Systems <support@armadeus.com>
Copyright 2017 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2017 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2017 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2017 ATMEL
Copyright 2017 ARM Ltd.
Copyright 2017 - Vikas MANOCHA <vikas.manocha@st.com>
Copyright 2017 - Steven Rostedt, VMware, Inc.
Copyright 2017 - Patrice Chotard <patrice.chotard@st.com>
Copyright 2017 - Free Electrons
Copyright 2017 - Alexandre Torgue <alexandre.torgue@st.com>
Copyright 2017 (c) Samsung Electronics Software, Inc.
Copyright 2017 (C) Priit Laes <plaes@plaes.org>
Copyright 2017	Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright 2016-2022 Toradex
Copyright 2016-2022 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2016-2022 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2016-2022 Broadcom Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2016-2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2016-2021 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2016-2021 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2016-2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2016-2020, Socionext Inc. Author: Kunihiko Hayashi
<hayashi.kunihiko@socionext.com>
Copyright 2016-2020 NXP
Copyright 2016-2020 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2016-2020 Broadcom Limited. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2016-2020 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2016-2019 Toradex AG
Copyright 2016-2019 NXP
Copyright 2016-2019 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2016-2018 Vladimir Zapolskiy <vz@mleia.com>
Copyright 2016-2018 Toradex AG
Copyright 2016-2018 Socionext Inc.
Copyright 2016-2018 NXP Semiconductors
Copyright 2016-2018 NXP
Copyright 2016-2018 HabanaLabs, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2016-2018 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2016-2017,2019-2020 NXP
Copyright 2016-2017, 2020 NXP
Copyright 2016-2017, 2019-2020 NXP
Copyright 2016-2017 Socionext Inc. Author: Kunihiko Hayashi
<hayashi.kunihiko@socionext.com>
Copyright 2016-2017 NXP
Copyright 2016-2017 Lukasz Majewski, DENX Software Engineering, lukma@denx.de
Copyright 2016-2017 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2016-2017 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright 2016-2017 Google, Inc
Copyright 2016-2017 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights
reserved.
Copyright 2016-17 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2016,2019-2020 NXP
Copyright 2016,2017 IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2016, Suraj Jitindar Singh, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2016, Rashmica Gupta, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2016, Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright 2016, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2016, Daniel Axtens, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2016, Cyril Bur, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2016, Chris Smart, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2016, Anton Blanchard, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2016, 2022 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2016 congatec AG
Copyright 2016 by Gaurav Minocha
Copyright 2016 by Frank Rowand
Copyright 2016 by Emese Revfy <re.emese@gmail.com>
Copyright 2016 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2016 United Western Technologies.
Copyright 2016 Toradex AG
Copyright 2016 Tom aan de Wiel
Copyright 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright 2016 STMicroelectronics Inc.
Copyright 2016 Russell King.
Copyright 2016 Rockwell Collins
Copyright 2016 Red Hat, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright 2016 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2016 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Oder Chiou
<oder_chiou@realtek.com>
Copyright 2016 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Jack Yu <jack.yu@realtek.com>
Copyright 2016 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Bard Liao
<bardliao@realtek.com>
Copyright 2016 Realtek Microelectronics Author: Jack Yu <jack.yu@realtek.com>
Copyright 2016 Realtek Microelectronics Author: Bard Liao <bardliao@realtek.com>
Copyright 2016 Realtek Microelectronics
Copyright 2016 Quentin Schulz
Copyright 2016 Qtechnology A/S 2016 Ricardo Ribalda <ribalda@kernel.org>
Copyright 2016 Peter Meerwald-Stadler <pmeerw@pmeerw.net>
Copyright 2016 Pengutronix, <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2016 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp. <paulus@au1.ibm.com>
Copyright 2016 Nuvoton Technology Corp. Author: John Hsu <KCHSU0@nuvoton.com>
Copyright 2016 Nuvoton Technology Corp. Author: David Lin <ctlin0@nuvoton.com>
Copyright 2016 Nuvoton Technology Corp.
Copyright 2016 Noralf Trønnes
Copyright 2016 NextThing Co
Copyright 2016 Netflix, Inc.
Copyright 2016 Naveen N. Rao <naveen.n.rao@linux.vnet.ibm.com> IBM Corporation
Copyright 2016 NXP Semiconductors
Copyright 2016 NXP Semiconductor
Copyright 2016 NXP
Copyright 2016 Mylène Josserand
Copyright 2016 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright 2016 Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2016 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright 2016 Maxime Ripard
Copyright 2016 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright 2016 Madhavan Srinivasan, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2016 Maciej W. Rozycki <macro@linux-mips.org>
Copyright 2016 Luxul Inc.
Copyright 2016 Luo Yi <luoyi.ly@gmail.com>
Copyright 2016 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2016 Linaro Ltd
Copyright 2016 Karol Herbst
Copyright 2016 Jonathan Cameron <jic23@kernel.org>
Copyright 2016 Intel Corporation All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2016 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2016 Intel Corp.
Copyright 2016 Integrated Device Technology, Inc.
Copyright 2016 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright 2016 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright 2016 Icenowy <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright 2016 IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2016 IBM Corporation
Copyright 2016 Heiner Kallweit <hkallweit1@gmail.com>
Copyright 2016 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2016 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl
Copyright 2016 HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES CO., LTD.
Copyright 2016 Grinn
Copyright 2016 Google, Inc
Copyright 2016 Google Inc.
Copyright 2016 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. and
Copyright 2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2016 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2016 Free Electrons NextThing Co. Quentin Schulz <quentin.schulz@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright 2016 Free Electrons
Copyright 2016 Ezequiel Garcia <ezequiel@vanguardiasur.com.ar>
Copyright 2016 Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A.
Copyright 2016 David Lechner <david@lechnology.com>
Copyright 2016 Crestez Dan Leonard <leonard.crestez@intel.com>
Copyright 2016 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2016 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2016 Christopher Spinrath
Copyright 2016 Christophe Leroy, CS Systemes d'Information
Copyright 2016 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright 2016 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright 2016 Chandan Kumar, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2016 Broadcom Limited
Copyright 2016 Broadcom
Copyright 2016 Boundary Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2016 Axis Communications AB.
Copyright 2016 Axentia Technologies
Copyright 2016 ArcticSand, Inc. Author : Brian Dodge <bdodge@arcticsand.com>
Copyright 2016 Anju T, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2016 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2016 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2016 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2016 Alexey Kardashevskiy, IBM Corporation <aik@au1.ibm.com>
Copyright 2016 Alastair D'Silva, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2016 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2016 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2016 : Hans Verkuil
Copyright 2016 - Stefan Mavrodiev <stefan.mavrodiev@gmail.com> Olimex LTD.
<support@olimex.com>
Copyright 2016 - Lee Jones <lee.jones@linaro.org>
Copyright 2016	Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright 2015-2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2015-2021 VMware, Inc.
Copyright 2015-2021 TQ-Systems GmbH Author: Markus Niebel <Markus.Niebel@tq-
group.com>
Copyright 2015-2020 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2015-2020 Adam Sampson <ats@offog.org>
Copyright 2015-2019 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2015-2018 Socionext Inc. Author: Kunihiko Hayashi
<hayashi.kunihiko@socionext.com> Contributors: Motoya Tanigawa
<tanigawa.motoya@socionext.com> Masami Hiramatsu <masami.hiramatsu@linaro.org>
Copyright 2015-2018 Socionext Inc. Author: Kunihiko Hayashi
<hayashi.kunihiko@socionext.com>
Copyright 2015-2018 Cirrus Logic
Copyright 2015-2017 Socionext Inc.
Copyright 2015-2017 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2015-2017 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2015-2017 Google, Inc
Copyright 2015-2017 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2015-2017	Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright 2015-2016, Aneesh Kumar K.V, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2015-2016 Vladimir Zapolskiy <vz@mleia.com>
Copyright 2015-2016 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2015-2016 Google Inc.
Copyright 2015-2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2015-2016 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2015-2016 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright 2015-2016 Axis Communications AB.
Copyright 2015-2016 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Paul Cercueil
<paul.cercueil@analog.com>
Copyright 2015-2016 : Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright 2015-16 Maxim Integrated Products
Copyright 2015-16 Golden Delicious Computers
Copyright 2015, Sam Bobroff, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2015, Red Hat, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright 2015, Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright 2015, Michael Neuling, IBM Corp. Michael Neuling 19/7/2013 Rashmica
Gupta 01/12/2015
Copyright 2015, Michael Neuling, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2015, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2015, Laurent Dufour, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2015, Heiner Kallweit <hkallweit1@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2015, Daniel Axtens, IBM Corporation
Copyright 2015, Cyril Bur, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2015, Anton Blanchard, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2015, Anshuman Khandual, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2015, 2019 Google LLC
Copyright 2015 Álvaro Fernández Rojas <noltari@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 www.starterkit.ru <info@starterkit.ru>
Copyright 2015 Vladimir Zapolskiy <vz@mleia.com>
Copyright 2015 Vishnu Patekar Vishnu Patekar <vishnupatekar0510@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 Vishnu Patekar
Copyright 2015 Verifone Int.
Copyright 2015 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2015 Tyler Baker
Copyright 2015 Toradex AG
Copyright 2015 Timesys Corporation.
Copyright 2015 Texas Instruments
Copyright 2015 Technologic Systems
Copyright 2015 Technexion Ltd.
Copyright 2015 Sutajio Ko-Usagi PTE LTD
Copyright 2015 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2015 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2015 Simon Arlott
Copyright 2015 Siarhei Siamashka <siarhei.siamashka@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 Savoir-faire Linux
Copyright 2015 Samuel Pitosiet
Copyright 2015 Samuel Pitoiset
Copyright 2015 SUSE Linux GmbH
Copyright 2015 Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
Copyright 2015 Regents of the University of California, Berkeley
Copyright 2015 Regents of the University of California
Copyright 2015 Red Hat, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright 2015 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2015 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Oder Chiou
<oder_chiou@realtek.com>
Copyright 2015 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Bard Liao
<bardliao@realtek.com>
Copyright 2015 Realtek Semiconductor Corp.
Copyright 2015 Realtek Microelectronics Author: Oder Chiou
<oder_chiou@realtek.com>
Copyright 2015 Realtek Microelectronics Author: Bard Liao <bardliao@realtek.com>
Copyright 2015 Priit Laes
Copyright 2015 Nuvoton Technology Corp. Co-author: Meng-Huang Kuo
<mhkuo@nuvoton.com>
Copyright 2015 Nouveau project
Copyright 2015 Nouveau Project
Copyright 2015 NextThing Co
Copyright 2015 Mentor Graphics Corporation.
Copyright 2015 Maxime Ripard Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright 2015 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright 2015 Maxime Ripard
Copyright 2015 Martin Peres
Copyright 2015 Martin Kepplinger <martink@posteo.de>
Copyright 2015 Marcus Cooper <codekipper@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 Marcus Cooper
Copyright 2015 Maciej Szmigiero <mail@maciej.szmigiero.name>
Copyright 2015 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2015 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2015 Linaro Ltd
Copyright 2015 Linaro Limited.
Copyright 2015 Linaro Limited
Copyright 2015 Lawrence Yu <lyu@micile.com>
Copyright 2015 LG Electronics Inc.
Copyright 2015 Karsten Merker <merker@debian.org>
Copyright 2015 Karol Herbst <nouveau@karolherbst.de>
Copyright 2015 Karol Herbst
Copyright 2015 Josef Gajdusek <atx@atx.name>
Copyright 2015 Jonas Gorski <jogo@openwrt.org>
Copyright 2015 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 Jelle van der Waa <jelle@vdwaa.nl>
Copyright 2015 Jelle de Jong <jelledejong@powercraft.nl>
Copyright 2015 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright 2015 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2015 IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2015 IBM Corporation Author: Mahesh Salgaonkar
<mahesh@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2015 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2015 Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright 2015 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2015 Hannes Reinecke
Copyright 2015 Gábor Nyers
Copyright 2015 Gridpoint
Copyright 2015 Google, Inc
Copyright 2015 Google Inc. Author: Anatol Pomozov
<anatol.pomozov@chrominium.org>
Copyright 2015 Google Inc.
Copyright 2015 Google Chromium project. Author: Anatol Pomozov
<anatol@chromium.org>
Copyright 2015 General Electric Company
Copyright 2015 Freescale, Inc. Tang Yuantian <Yuantian.Tang@freescale.com>
Copyright 2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2015 Freescale Semiconductor York Sun <yorksun@freescale.com>
Copyright 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2015 Free Electrons
Copyright 2015 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright 2015 Endless Mobile, Inc. Author: Carlo Caione <carlo@endlessm.com>
Copyright 2015 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2015 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2015 Cirrus Logic Inc.
Copyright 2015 Cirrus Logic Inc
Copyright 2015 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright 2015 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright 2015 Carnegie Mellon University
Copyright 2015 Broadcom
Copyright 2015 Boundary Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2015 Baylibre SAS.
Copyright 2015 Armadeus Systems <support@armadeus.com>
Copyright 2015 Ariel D'Alessandro <ariel.dalessandro@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 Antoine Tenart <atenart@kernel.org>
Copyright 2015 Annapurna Labs Ltd.
Copyright 2015 Andy Fleming
Copyright 2015 Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
Copyright 2015 Andrea Venturi <be17068@iperbole.bo.it>
Copyright 2015 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2015 Allworx Corp.
Copyright 2015 Aleksei Mamlin Aleksei Mamlin <mamlinav@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 Alban Bedel <albeu@free.fr>
Copyright 2015 Akamai Technologies Inc. All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2015 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2015 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2015 Adam Sampson <ats@offog.org>
Copyright 2015 - Ultimaker B.V. Author Olliver Schinagl <oliver@schinagl.nl>
Copyright 2015 - Steven Rostedt, Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2015 - Maxime Coquelin <mcoquelin.stm32@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 - Marcus Cooper <codekipper@gmail.com>
Copyright 2015 - Karsten Merker <merker@debian.org>
Copyright 2015 - 2016 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright 2014-2022 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2014-2022 Toradex
Copyright 2014-2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2014-2020 Toradex
Copyright 2014-2019 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2014-2018 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2014-2017 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2014-2016 by Open Source Security, Inc., Brad Spengler
<spender@grsecurity.net> and PaX Team <pageexec@freemail.hu>
Copyright 2014-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2014-2016 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2014-2016 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2014-2016 Google Inc.
Copyright 2014-2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2014-2016 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2014-2016 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Paul Cercueil
<paul.cercueil@analog.com>
Copyright 2014-2016 Analog Devices Author: Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2014-2015, Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright 2014-2015 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2014-2015 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2014-2015 Scott Feldman <sfeldma@gmail.com>
Copyright 2014-2015 Prodrive Technologies Andre van Herk
<andre.van.herk@prodrive-technologies.com> Jerry Jacobs <jerry.jacobs@prodrive-
technologies.com>
Copyright 2014-2015 PMC-Sierra, Inc.
Copyright 2014-2015 Macq S.A.
Copyright 2014-2015 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2014-2015 Integrated Device Technology, Inc. Alexandre Bounine
<alexandre.bounine@idt.com>
Copyright 2014-2015 Google Inc.
Copyright 2014-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2014-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2014-2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2014-2015 Freescale
Copyright 2014-2015 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights
reserved.
Copyright 2014-2015 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen
<lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2014-2015 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2014-16 Peter Meerwald-Stadler <pmeerw@pmeerw.net>
Copyright 2014, Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright 2014, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2014, Jason Cooper <jason@lakedaemon.net>
Copyright 2014, Intel Corporation
Copyright 2014, Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright 2014, Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2014, 2015 O.S. Systems Software LTDA.
Copyright 2014 Zoltan HERPAI Zoltan HERPAI <wigyori@uid0.hu>
Copyright 2014 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright 2014 Ulrich Hecht
Copyright 2014 Texas Instruments, Inc. Santosh Shilimkar
<santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright 2014 Sutajio Ko-Usagi PTE LTD
Copyright 2014 Sukadev Bhattiprolu, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2014 Sony Mobile Communications Inc.
Copyright 2014 Soeren Moch <smoch@web.de>
Copyright 2014 Skyworks Solutions Inc. Author : Gyungoh Yoo
<jack.yoo@skyworksinc.com>
Copyright 2014 Siarhei Siamashka <siarhei.siamashka@gmail.com>
Copyright 2014 Roy Spliet
Copyright 2014 Rose Technology
Copyright 2014 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2014 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Bard Liao
<bardliao@realtek.com>
Copyright 2014 Realtek Semiconductor Corp.
Copyright 2014 Realtek Microelectronics Author: Bard Liao <bardliao@realtek.com>
Copyright 2014 Rafał Miłecki
Copyright 2014 QLogic Corporation All rights reserved
Copyright 2014 Prodrive Technologies B.V.
Copyright 2014 Peter Meerwald <pmeerw@pmeerw.net>
Copyright 2014 Panasonic Corporation
Copyright 2014 Pali Rohár <pali@kernel.org>
Copyright 2014 Open Source Support GmbH
Copyright 2014 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright 2014 MundoReader S.L.
Copyright 2014 Michal Sojka <sojka@merica.cz>
Copyright 2014 Maxime Ripard
Copyright 2014 Martin Peres <martin.peres@free.fr>
Copyright 2014 Martin Peres
Copyright 2014 Markus Pargmann <mpa@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright 2014 Luxul Inc.
Copyright 2014 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2014 Linaro Ltd
Copyright 2014 Linaro Limited Author: Matt Porter <mporter@linaro.org>
Copyright 2014 Linaro Limited
Copyright 2014 Laurent Pinchart
Copyright 2014 Jon Smirl <jonsmirl@gmail.com>
Copyright 2014 Jiri Pirko <jiri@resnulli.us>
Copyright 2014 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
Copyright 2014 Intel Corporation; author: H. Peter Anvin
Copyright 2014 Ideas on Board Oy
Copyright 2014 Iain Paton <ipaton0@gmail.com>
Copyright 2014 IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2014 IBM Corporation Author: Mahesh Salgaonkar
<mahesh@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2014 IBM Corp. Author(s): Alexander Yarygin
<yarygin@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2014 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2014 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2014 Google, Inc.
Copyright 2014 Google, Inc Author: Alexandru M Stan <amstan@chromium.org>
Copyright 2014 Google, Inc
Copyright 2014 Google Inc. Author: willemb@google.com (Willem de Bruijn)
Copyright 2014 Google Inc.
Copyright 2014 Google Chromium project. Author: Anatol Pomozov
<anatol@chromium.org>
Copyright 2014 Gerd Hoffmann <kraxel@redhat.com>
Copyright 2014 General Electric Company
Copyright 2014 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2014 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2014 FEDEVEL, Inc.
Copyright 2014 Emilio López <emilio@elopez.com.ar>
Copyright 2014 Embest Technology Co. Ltd. Inc. Author: yanglsh@embest-tech.com
Copyright 2014 Embest Technology Co. Ltd. Inc.
Copyright 2014 Elettra-Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A.
Copyright 2014 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2014 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Copyright 2014 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2014 CirrusLogic, Inc.
Copyright 2014 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2014 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright 2014 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright 2014 Carlo Caione <carlo@caione.org>
Copyright 2014 Canonical
Copyright 2014 Boris Brezillon
Copyright 2014 Beniamino Galvani <b.galvani@gmail.com>
Copyright 2014 Belkin Inc.
Copyright 2014 Bart Tanghe <bart.tanghe@thomasmore.be>
Copyright 2014 Andrea Merello <andrea.merello@gmail.com>
Copyright 2014 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2014 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2014 Alexander Aring <aar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2014 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2014 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2014 - Iain Paton <ipaton0@gmail.com>
Copyright 2014 - Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2014 - 2019 aQuantia Corporation.
Copyright 2014 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2014 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2014	Intel Corporation (Author: Johannes Berg)
Copyright 2013: Jeff Layton <jlayton@redhat.com>
Copyright 2013-2021 TQ-Systems GmbH Author: Markus Niebel <Markus.Niebel@tq-
group.com>
Copyright 2013-2019 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen
<lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2013-2017 by PaX Team <pageexec@freemail.hu>
Copyright 2013-2017 Pervasive Displays, Inc.
Copyright 2013-2017 Markus Niebel <Markus.Niebel@tq-group.com>
Copyright 2013-2017 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2013-2017 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2013-2016 Integrated Device Technology, Inc.
Copyright 2013-2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2013-2016 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2013-2015, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2013-2015 Maxim Integrated Products
Copyright 2013-2015 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
Copyright 2013-2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2013-2015 Emilio López
Copyright 2013-2015 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen
<lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2013-2014 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2013-2014 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
Copyright 2013-2014 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright 2013-2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2013-2014 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2013-2014 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen
<lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2013-15 Maxim Integrated Products
Copyright 2013-15 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2013,2014 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2013, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2013, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2013, Michael (Ellerman|Neuling), IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2013, Anton Blanchard, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2013, 2014 Horms Solutions Ltd.
Copyright 2013 Wills Wang
Copyright 2013 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2013 Tomasz Figa <tomasz.figa@gmail.com>
Copyright 2013 Til-Technologies
Copyright 2013 Texas Instruments, Inc. Santosh Shilimkar
<santosh.shillimkar@ti.com>
Copyright 2013 Texas Instruments, Inc. Cyril Chemparathy <cyril@ti.com> Santosh
Shilimkar <santosh.shillimkar@ti.com>
Copyright 2013 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright 2013 Texas Instruments
Copyright 2013 Solarflare Communications Author: Ben Hutchings
Copyright 2013 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright 2013 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2013 STMicroelectronics Inc.
Copyright 2013 Runzhen Wang, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2013 Rostislav Lisovy <lisovy@gmail.com>, PiKRON s.r.o.
Copyright 2013 Red Hat, Inc. Author: Daniel Borkmann <dborkman@redhat.com>
Chetan Loke <loke.chetan@gmail.com>
Copyright 2013 Red Hat Inc. Authors: Dave Airlie Alon Levy Michael Thayer
<michael.thayer@oracle.com, Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2013 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2013 Red Hat All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2013 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Oder Chiou
<oder_chiou@realtek.com>
Copyright 2013 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Bard Liao
<bardliao@realtek.com>
Copyright 2013 Realtek Microelectronics Author: Bard Liao <bardliao@realtek.com>
Copyright 2013 Realtek Microelectronics
Copyright 2013 Qtechnology/AS
Copyright 2013 Prodrive B.V.
Copyright 2013 Philipp Zabel, Pengutronix
Copyright 2013 Peter Meerwald <pmeerw@pmeerw.net>
Copyright 2013 Pavel Machek <pavel@denx.de>
Copyright 2013 Ondrej Zary
Copyright 2013 Olliver Schinagl <oliver@schinagl.nl>
Copyright 2013 Oliver Schinagl
Copyright 2013 Oleksandr Kravchenko <x0199363@ti.com>
Copyright 2013 Oleksandr Kravchenko <o.v.kravchenko@globallogic.com>
Copyright 2013 Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2013 Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2013 Michael Ellerman, Guo Chao, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2013 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright 2013 Maxime Ripard
Copyright 2013 Matthew Garrett <mjg59@srcf.ucam.org>
Copyright 2013 Markus Pargmann <mpa@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright 2013 Lucas Stach, Pengutronix <l.stach@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2013 Linaro Ltd. Written by: David A. Long
Copyright 2013 Linaro Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2013 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2013 Linaro Ltd
Copyright 2013 Linaro Limited; author Roy Franz
Copyright 2013 Linaro Limited
Copyright 2013 Linaro
Copyright 2013 Jeff Layton <jlayton@poochiereds.net>
Copyright 2013 Intel Corporation; author Matt Fleming
Copyright 2013 Intel Corporation All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2013 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2013 Ilia Mirkin
Copyright 2013 Ideas On Board SPRL
Copyright 2013 IBM Corporation Author: Mahesh Salgaonkar
<mahesh@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2013 IBM Corporation
Copyright 2013 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2013 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright 2013 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2013 Greg Ungerer <gerg@uclinux.org>
Copyright 2013 Google, Inc
Copyright 2013 Google Inc. Written by Willem de Bruijn <willemb@google.com>
Copyright 2013 Google Inc. Author: Willem de Bruijn (willemb@google.com)
Copyright 2013 Google Inc. Author: Willem de Bruijn <willemb@google.com> Daniel
Borkmann <dborkman@redhat.com>
Copyright 2013 Google Inc. All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2013 Golden Delicious Computers Nikolaus Schaller <hns@goldelico.com>
Copyright 2013 Golden Delicious Computers Lukas Märdian <lukas@goldelico.com>
Copyright 2013 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright 2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Dongsheng Wang
<Dongsheng.Wang@freescale.com> Li Yang <leoli@freescale.com>
Copyright 2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2013 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2013 Free Electrons
Copyright 2013 Florian Meier <florian.meier@koalo.de>
Copyright 2013 Eukréa Electromatique <eric@eukrea.com>
Copyright 2013 Eukréa Electromatique <denis@eukrea.com>
Copyright 2013 Emilio López Emilio López <emilio@elopez.com.ar>
Copyright 2013 Emilio López
Copyright 2013 Data Modul AG
Copyright 2013 Daniel Borkmann <daniel@iogearbox.net>
Copyright 2013 Daniel Borkmann <borkmann@redhat.com>
Copyright 2013 Crystalfontz America, Inc. Free Electrons
Copyright 2013 Crystalfontz America, Inc.
Copyright 2013 CompuLab Ltd. Author: Valentin Raevsky <valentin@compulab.co.il>
Copyright 2013 CompuLab Ltd.
Copyright 2013 Codethink Ltd.
Copyright 2013 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2013 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright 2013 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2013 Christian Hemp, Phytec Messtechnik GmbH
Copyright 2013 Chen-Yu Tsai Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright 2013 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright 2013 CSC Australia Pty. Ltd.
Copyright 2013 Boundary Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2013 Armadeus Systems - <support@armadeus.com>
Copyright 2013 Anshuman Khandual, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2013 Andrey Smirnov <andrew.smirnov@gmail.com>
Copyright 2013 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2013 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2013 Amarula Solutions
Copyright 2013 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2013 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2013 Actions Semi Inc. Author: Actions Semi, Inc.
Copyright 2013 ATMEL, Josh Wu (josh.wu@atmel.com)
Copyright 2013 - 2022 CZ.NIC z.s.p.o. (http://www.nic.cz/)
Copyright 2013 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2013 - 2014 Maxim Integrated Products
Copyright 2013 - 2014 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2012-2021 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2012-2021 VMware, Inc.
Copyright 2012-2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2012-2020 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2012-2019 Red Hat
Copyright 2012-2019 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2012-2017 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2012-2017 <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright 2012-2016 by the PaX Team <pageexec@freemail.hu>
Copyright 2012-2016 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2012-2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2012-2016 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2012-2015 Maxime Ripard
Copyright 2012-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2012-2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2012-2015 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights
reserved.
Copyright 2012-2014 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2012-2014 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright 2012-2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2012-2013, cozybit Inc.
Copyright 2012-2013, Marco Porsch <marco.porsch@s2005.tu-chemnitz.de>
Copyright 2012-2013 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2012-2013 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2012-2013 STMicroelectronics Inc.
Copyright 2012-2013 Jonas Gorski <jogo@openwrt.org>
Copyright 2012-2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2012-2013 David Herrmann <dh.herrmann@gmail.com>
Copyright 2012-2013 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen
<lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2012-2013 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2012-2013 (C) M2TECH S.r.l and Amarula Solutions B.V.
Copyright 2012-20 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2012-17 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2012-16 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2012-15 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.cls
Copyright 2012-15 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2012-14 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2012, Samuel Neves <sneves@dei.uc.pt>.
Copyright 2012, Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright 2012, Fabio Baltieri <fabio.baltieri@gmail.com>
Copyright 2012, Anton Blanchard, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2012 by Servergy, Inc.
Copyright 2012 by Oracle Inc Author: Konrad Rzeszutek Wilk
<konrad.wilk@oracle.com>
Copyright 2012 Yuanhan Liu All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2012 Xyratex Technology Limited
Copyright 2012 Wolfson Microelectronics. PLC.
Copyright 2012 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright 2012 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Mark Brown
<broonie@opensource.wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright 2012 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2012 Wolfson Microelectronics
Copyright 2012 Viresh Kumar <vireshk@kernel.org>
Copyright 2012 The Nouveau community
Copyright 2012 Texas Instruments
Copyright 2012 Steffen Trumtrar, Pengutronix
Copyright 2012 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright 2012 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2012 Stefan Roese Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2012 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2012 Stanislav Yakovlev <stas.yakovlev@gmail.com>
Copyright 2012 Sony Corporation
Copyright 2012 Sonal Santan
Copyright 2012 Simon Arlott, Chris Boot, Stephen Warren
Copyright 2012 Simon Arlott
Copyright 2012 Shiraz Hashim <shiraz.linux.kernel@gmail.com>
Copyright 2012 Shawn Guo <shawn.guo@linaro.org>
Copyright 2012 Sascha Hauer, Uwe Kleine-König, Steffen Trumtrar and Markus
Pargmann, Pengutronix
Copyright 2012 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2012 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright 2012 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright 2012 ST-Ericsson AB
Copyright 2012 ST-Ericsson
Copyright 2012 ST Microelectronics (Alessandro Rubini)
Copyright 2012 Roland Stigge <stigge@antcom.de>
Copyright 2012 Red Hat, Inc. Doug Ledford <dledford@redhat.com>
Copyright 2012 Red Hat, Inc <mjg@redhat.com> Author: Matthew Garrett
Copyright 2012 Red Hat, Inc <mjg@redhat.com>
Copyright 2012 Red Hat Inc. Authors: Dave Airlie <airlied@redhat.com>, Michael
Thayer <michael.thayer@oracle.com, Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2012 Red Hat Inc. Authors: Dave Airlie <airlied@redhat.com> Michael
Thayer <michael.thayer@oracle.com, Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright 2012 Red Hat Inc. Authors: Dave Airlie <airlied@redhat.com> Michael
Thayer <michael.thayer@oracle.com>
Copyright 2012 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2012 Red Hat Inc
Copyright 2012 Red Hat <mjg@redhat.com>
Copyright 2012 Red Hat
Copyright 2012 Philippe Reynes <tremyfr@yahoo.fr>
Copyright 2012 Philippe Retornaz, philippe.retornaz@epfl.ch
Copyright 2012 Peter Meerwald <pmeerw@pmeerw.net>
Copyright 2012 Pavel Machek <pavel@denx.de>
Copyright 2012 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp. <paulus@au1.ibm.com>
Copyright 2012 Panasonic Corporation
Copyright 2012 Ondrej Zary <linux@rainbow-software.org> M. Kirkwood and M.
Kirkwood and Petr Vandrovec
Copyright 2012 Nouveau community
Copyright 2012 Nouveau Community
Copyright 2012 Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2012 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright 2012 Maxime Ripard
Copyright 2012 Matt Evans & Michael Neuling, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2012 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright 2012 Markus Pargmann, Pengutronix
Copyright 2012 Maarten Lankhorst
Copyright 2012 Lothar Felten <l-felten@ti.com>
Copyright 2012 Linaro Ltd. Anton Vorontsov <anton.vorontsov@linaro.org>
Copyright 2012 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2012 Linaro Ltd
Copyright 2012 Laurent Cans <laurent.cans@gmail.com>
Copyright 2012 Kim Phillips, Freescale Semiconductor.
Copyright 2012 Javier Martin, Vista Silicon <javier.martin@vista-silicon.com>
Copyright 2012 Intel Corporation; author H. Peter Anvin
Copyright 2012 Intel Corporation Author: Josh Triplett <josh@joshtriplett.org>
Copyright 2012 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2012 IBM Corporation
Copyright 2012 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2012 Google, Inc.
Copyright 2012 Google, Inc
Copyright 2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2012 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2012 Free Electrons
Copyright 2012 Emerson
Copyright 2012 Dialog Semiconductors Ltd.
Copyright 2012 Dialog Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright 2012 Denis 'GNUtoo' Carikli <GNUtoo@no-log.org>
Copyright 2012 DENX Software Engineering, GmbH.
Copyright 2012 DENX Software Engineering, GmbH
Copyright 2012 DENX Software Engineering GmbH Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright 2012 Creative Product Design Marc Reilly <marc@cpdesign.com.au>
Copyright 2012 Cisco Systems, Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2012 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2012 CirrusLogic, Inc.
Copyright 2012 Calxeda, Inc.
Copyright 2012 CS Systemes d'Information
Copyright 2012 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2012 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corporation
Copyright 2012 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2012 Armadeus Systems - <support@armadeus.com>
Copyright 2012 Armadeus Systems <support@armadeus.com>
Copyright 2012 Anatolij Gustschin <agust@denx.de>
Copyright 2012 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2012 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2012 Alexandre Pereira da Silva <aletes.xgr@gmail.com>
Copyright 2012 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2012 Actions Semi Inc. Author: Actions Semi, Inc.
Copyright 2012 ATMEL, Hong Xu
Copyright 2012 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2012 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2012 - 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright 2012 (C), Thomas Petazzoni <thomas.petazzoni@free-electrons.com>
Copyright 2012 (C), Jason Cooper <jason@lakedaemon.net>
Copyright 2011-2022 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2011-2020 NXP
Copyright 2011-2019 NW Digital Radio
Copyright 2011-2017 by the PaX Team <pageexec@freemail.hu> Modified by Alexander
Popov <alex.popov@linux.com>
Copyright 2011-2016 by Emese Revfy <re.emese@gmail.com>
Copyright 2011-2016 Google Inc.
Copyright 2011-2016 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2011-2016 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen
<lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2011-2015 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2011-2015 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright 2011-2015 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2011-2014, ARM Ltd.
Copyright 2011-2014 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2011-2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2011-2014 Autronica Fire and Security AS
Copyright 2011-2014 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen
<lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2011-2013 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright 2011-2013 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2011-2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2011-2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2011-2013 Autronica Fire and Security AS
Copyright 2011-2013 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen
<lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2011-2012, cozybit Inc.
Copyright 2011-2012, Pavel Zubarev <pavel.zubarev@gmail.com>
Copyright 2011-2012, Meador Inge, Mentor Graphics Corporation.
Copyright 2011-2012, Marco Porsch <marco.porsch@s2005.tu-chemnitz.de>
Copyright 2011-2012 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2011-2012 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright 2011-2012 NVIDIA, Inc.
Copyright 2011-2012 Maxim Integrated Products
Copyright 2011-2012 Julian Squires <julian@cipht.net>
Copyright 2011-2012 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright 2011-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2011-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
Copyright 2011-2012 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2011-2012 Calxeda, Inc.
Copyright 2011-2012 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2011-2 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright 2011-2 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Mark Brown
<broonie@opensource.wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright 2011-2 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2011,2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2011, Siemens AG written by Alexander Smirnov
<alex.bluesman.smirnov@gmail.com>
Copyright 2011, Mahesh Salgaonkar, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2011, Integrated Device Technology, Inc.
Copyright 2011, Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright 2011, Dmitry Eremin-Solenikov
Copyright 2011, Chetan Loke <loke.chetan@gmail.com>
Copyright 2011, Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2011, ARM Ltd.
Copyright 2011, 2012, Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright 2011 bct electronic GmbH
Copyright 2011 Xillybus Ltd, http://xillybus.com
Copyright 2011 Wolfson Microelectronics. PLC.
Copyright 2011 Wolfson Microelectronics plc. Author: Mark Brown
<broonie@opensource.wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright 2011 Wolfson Microelectronics plc Mark Brown
<broonie@opensource.wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright 2011 Wolfson Microelectronics plc Author: Mark Brown
<broonie@opensource.wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright 2011 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright 2011 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Mark Brown
<broonie@opensource.wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright 2011 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2011 Wolfson Microelectronics
Copyright 2011 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix e.K.
Copyright 2011 Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright 2011 Vista Silicon S.L.
Copyright 2011 The Chromium Authors, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2011 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2011 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2011 ST-Ericsson AB
Copyright 2011 Roland Stigge <stigge@antcom.de>
Copyright 2011 Red Hat, Inc., Peter Zijlstra
Copyright 2011 Red Hat, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright 2011 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2011 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2011 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2011 Red Hat Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2011 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2011 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. Author: Johnny Hsu
<johnnyhsu@realtek.com>
Copyright 2011 Realtek Microelectronics Author: Johnny Hsu
<johnnyhsu@realtek.com>
Copyright 2011 Realtek Microelectronics
Copyright 2011 Picochip, Jamie Iles.
Copyright 2011 PetaLogix Qld Pty Ltd
Copyright 2011 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp. <paulus@au1.ibm.com>
Copyright 2011 Microsoft
Copyright 2011 Michal Simek <monstr@monstr.eu>
Copyright 2011 Maxim Integrated Products
Copyright 2011 Matt Evans <matt@ozlabs.org>, IBM Corporation 2016 Naveen N. Rao
<naveen.n.rao@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2011 Marvell. <jyli@marvell.com>
Copyright 2011 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright 2011 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright 2011 Linaro
Copyright 2011 Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2011 Jonathan Corbet corbet@lwn.net
Copyright 2011 Jonathan Corbet <corbet@lwn.net>
Copyright 2011 Intel Corporation; author Matt Fleming
Copyright 2011 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2011 Intel Corp. Author: Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright 2011 Integrated Device Technology, Inc. Alexandre Bounine
<alexandre.bounine@idt.com> Chul Kim <chul.kim@idt.com>
Copyright 2011 IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2011 IBM Corporation Author: Mahesh Salgaonkar
<mahesh@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2011 IBM Corporation
Copyright 2011 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2011 Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright 2011 Hauppauge Computer works
Copyright 2011 Google, Inc.
Copyright 2011 Google Inc. All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
Copyright 2011 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2011 Free Electrons
Copyright 2011 Florian Tobias Schandinat <FlorianSchandinat@gmx.de>
Copyright 2011 Fenghua Yu <fenghua.yu@intel.com>
Copyright 2011 David Gibson, IBM Corporation <dwg@au1.ibm.com>
Copyright 2011 CompuLab, Ltd.
Copyright 2011 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2011 Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright 2011 Christian König. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2011 Calxeda, Inc.
Copyright 2011 Broadcom Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2011 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2011 Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2011 Ben Hutchings.
Copyright 2011 Ben Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2011 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Yi Li <yi.li@analog.com> Author:
Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2011 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Cliff Cai <cliff.cai@analog.com>
Copyright 2011 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright 2011 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2011 Analog Devices Inc
Copyright 2011 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2011 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2011 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2011 - 2014 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2011 - 2012 Maxim Integrated Products
Copyright 2011 - 2012 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright 2011 - 2012 Bryan Wu <bryan.wu@canonical.com>
Copyright 2010-2017 ARM Limited. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2010-2015 Samuel Thibault <samuel.thibault@ens-lyon.org>
Copyright 2010-2015 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright 2010-2014 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright 2010-2013 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright 2010-2012 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2010-2012 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright 2010-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2010-2011, 2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2010-2011 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright 2010-2011 Picochip Ltd., Jamie Iles https://www.picochip.com
Copyright 2010-2011 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp. <paulus@au1.ibm.com>
Copyright 2010-2011 GE Intelligent Platforms Embedded Systems, Inc.
Copyright 2010-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2010-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2010-2011 Calxeda, Inc.
Copyright 2010-2011 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2010-2 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright 2010-11 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright 2010-1 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright 2010,2012 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2010,2012 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2010,2011 Intel Corp. Author: Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright 2010, IBM Corporation. Author: K.Prasad <prasad@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2010, Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@googlemail.com>
Copyright 2010, Bernhard Loos <bernhardloos@googlemail.com>
Copyright 2010, 2011 Mark Nelson and Tseng-Hui (Frank) Lin, IBM Corporation
Copyright 2010, 2011 Kent Overstreet <kent.overstreet@gmail.com>
Copyright 2010, 2011 David Jander <david@protonic.nl>
Copyright 2010 by Konrad Rzeszutek Wilk <konrad.wilk@oracle.com>
Copyright 2010 Yong Shen <yong.shen@linaro.org>
Copyright 2010 Wolfson Microelectronics. PLC.
Copyright 2010 Wolfson Microelectronics, plc
Copyright 2010 Wolfson Microelectronics plc Author: Dimitris Papastamos
<dp@opensource.wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright 2010 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright 2010 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2010 Torez Smith, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2010 Tilera Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2010 Texas Instruments Inc. Author: Graeme Gregory
<gg@slimlogic.co.uk> Author: Jorge Eduardo Candelaria <jedu@slimlogic.co.uk>
Copyright 2010 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright 2010 Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>, Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2010 Steven King <sfking@fdwdc.com>
Copyright 2010 Silicon Turnkey Express LLC.
Copyright 2010 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2010 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Pawel Osciak <p.osciak@samsung.com>
Copyright 2010 Red Hat, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2010 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2010 Promwad Innovation Company Yauhen Kharuzhy
<yauhen.kharuzhy@promwad.com>
Copyright 2010 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp. <paulus@au1.ibm.com>
Copyright 2010 Orex Computed Radiography
Copyright 2010 One Laptop Per Child
Copyright 2010 OKI Semiconductors Ltd.
Copyright 2010 Nokia Corporation Contact: Felipe Balbi <felipe.balbi@nokia.com>
Copyright 2010 Nokia Corporation
Copyright 2010 Nicolas Palix <npalix@diku.dk>
Copyright 2010 MontaVista Software, LLC. Anton Vorontsov
<avorontsov@ru.mvista.com>
Copyright 2010 MontaVista Software, LLC. Anton Vorontsov <avorontsov@mvista.com>
Copyright 2010 MontaVista Software, LLC.
Copyright 2010 Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2010 Maxim Integrated Products
Copyright 2010 Maurus Cuelenaere <mcuelenaere@gmail.com>
Copyright 2010 Matt Turner.
Copyright 2010 Marvell Zhangfei Gao <zhangfei.gao@marvell.com>
Copyright 2010 Marvell International Ltd. Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@marvell.com>
Copyright 2010 Marvell International Ltd. Author: Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@marvell.com>
Copyright 2010 Julia Lawall <julia@diku.dk>
Copyright 2010 Intel Corp. Author: Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright 2010 Integrated Device Technology, Inc. Alexandre Bounine
<alexandre.bounine@idt.com>
Copyright 2010 Ilya Yanok, Emcraft Systems, yanok@emcraft.com
Copyright 2010 IBM Corporation Author: K.Prasad <prasad@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2010 IBM Corp, Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 2010 Google, Inc. Arve Hjønnevåg <arve@android.com> Colin Cross
<ccross@android.com>
Copyright 2010 Google Inc. All Rights Reserved. Author: dlaurie@google.com
(Duncan Laurie)
Copyright 2010 Gilles Muller <Gilles.Muller@lip6.fr>
Copyright 2010 GE Intelligent Platforms Embedded Systems, Inc.
Copyright 2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2010 Florian Tobias Schandinat <FlorianSchandinat@gmx.de>
Copyright 2010 Eric Bénard, Eukréa Electromatique <eric@eukrea.com>
Copyright 2010 David Gibson <david@gibson.dropbear.id.au>, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2010 Darius Augulis <augulis.darius@gmail.com>
Copyright 2010 DENX Software Engineering, Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2010 DENX Software Engineering GmbH
Copyright 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Tom Lyon,
pugs@cisco.com
Copyright 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2010 Cavium Networks
Copyright 2010 Canonical, Ltd. Author: Kees Cook <kees.cook@canonical.com>
Copyright 2010 Broadcom
Copyright 2010 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp benh@kernel.crashing.org> and
David Gibson, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2010 Ben. Herrenschmidt, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2010 Ben Dooks <ben-linux@fluff.org>
Copyright 2010 Ben Dooks <ben-linux <at> fluff.org>
Copyright 2010 Arnaud Patard <arnaud.patard@rtp-net.org>
Copyright 2010 Anton Vorontsov <cbouatmailru@gmail.com>
Copyright 2010 Andre B. Oliveira
Copyright 2010 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2010 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2010 : Laurent Pinchart
Copyright 2010 2011 Mark Nelson and Tseng-Hui (Frank) Lin, IBM Corporation
Copyright 2010 - Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>, Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2010 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2010 - 2014 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2010 (c) ST-Ericsson AB
Copyright 2010 (c) Philippe De Muyter <phdm@macqel.be>
Copyright 2010 (C) Texas Instruments, Inc. https://www.ti.com/
Copyright 2009-2022 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2009-2020 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2009-2020 : LinuxTV Developers
Copyright 2009-2018 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2009-2018 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright 2009-2017 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright 2009-2017 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2009-2017 : Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright 2009-2016 : Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright 2009-2015 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2009-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. and others
Copyright 2009-2014 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2009-2014 Intel Corporation; author H. Peter Anvin
Copyright 2009-2014 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2009-2013 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2009-2013 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright 2009-2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2009-2012 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2009-2012 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright 2009-2011 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2009-2011 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2009-2011 Marvell. <yuxiangl@marvell.com>
Copyright 2009-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2009-2011 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2009-2011 Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@googlemail.com>
Copyright 2009-2011 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2009-2010 Pengutronix Uwe Kleine-Koenig <u.kleine-
koenig@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2009-2010 Jonathan Corbet <corbet@lwn.net>
Copyright 2009-2010 Intel Corp. Author: Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright 2009-2010 Integrated Device Technology, Inc. Alexandre Bounine
<alexandre.bounine@idt.com>
Copyright 2009-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2009-2010 Creative Product Design Marc Reilly marc@cpdesign.com.au
Copyright 2009-2010 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright 2009-2010 Ben Dooks <ben-linux@fluff.org>
Copyright 2009-2010 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2009-12 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright 2009-12 Wolfson Microelectronics
Copyright 2009-10 Wolfson Microelectronics, plc
Copyright 2009,2012-2013 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2009,2012 Gražvydas Ignotas <notasas@gmail.com>
Copyright 2009,2010 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2009,2010 Jonathan Corbet <corbet@lwn.net>
Copyright 2009, Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2009, Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright 2009, Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2009, Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2009, Boris Hajduk <boris@hajduk.org>
Copyright 2009, Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2009, 2010, Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@googlemail.com>
Copyright 2009, 2010, Christian Lamparer <chunkeey@googlemail.com>
Copyright 2009, 2010 Wolfson Microelectronics. PLC.
Copyright 2009 by Karsten Keil <keil@isdn4linux.de>
Copyright 2009 Wolfson Microelectronics. PLC.
Copyright 2009 Wolfson Microelectronics, plc
Copyright 2009 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright 2009 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2009 Wolfson Microelectronics Mark Brown
<broonie@opensource.wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright 2009 Wolfson Microelectronics
Copyright 2009 Wolfson Microelectonics plc
Copyright 2009 VMware, Inc.
Copyright 2009 Tobias Lorenz <tobias.lorenz@gmx.net>
Copyright 2009 Texas Instruments.
Copyright 2009 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright 2009 Sysgo AG Thomas Moll <thomas.moll@sysgo.com>
Copyright 2009 Sony Corporation
Copyright 2009 Simtec Electronics http://www.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2009 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Copyright 2009 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2009 Simtec Electronics <linux@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2009 Simtec Electronics
Copyright 2009 Simon Arlott
Copyright 2009 ShotSpotter Inc. Author: Graeme Gregory <gg@slimlogic.co.uk>
Copyright 2009 Semihalf.
Copyright 2009 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd. Grant Likely
<grant.likely@secretlab.ca> Steven Cavanagh <scavanagh@secretlab.ca>
Copyright 2009 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd.
Copyright 2009 Sascha Hauer, s.hauer@pengutronix.de
Copyright 2009 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2009 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2009 Roderick Colenbrander
Copyright 2009 Red Hat, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2009 Red Hat Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2009 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2009 Prodrive B.V.
Copyright 2009 Philipp Zabel
Copyright 2009 Peter Korsgaard <jacmet@sunsite.dk>
Copyright 2009 Pengutronix, Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2009 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright 2009 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2009 Openmoko, Inc Balaji Rao <balajirrao@openmoko.org>
Copyright 2009 Novell. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2009 Nokia Corporation
Copyright 2009 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2009 Marcin Kościelnicki
Copyright 2009 Luotao Fu @ Pengutronix (l.fu@pengutronix.de)
Copyright 2009 Luis R. Rodriguez <mcgrof@gmail.com>
Copyright 2009 Larry Finger <Larry.Finger@lwfinger.net>
Copyright 2009 Kwangwoo Lee Kwangwoo Lee <kwangwoo.lee@gmail.com>
Copyright 2009 Krzysztof Helt <krzysztof.h1@wp.pl>
Copyright 2009 Jonathan Corbet <corbet@lwn.net>
Copyright 2009 Jon Smirl, Digispeaker Author: Jon Smirl <jonsmirl@gmail.com>
Copyright 2009 John F. Reiser <jreiser@BitWagon.com>. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2009 Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2009 Jerome Glisse. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2009 Jerome Glisse.
Copyright 2009 Jerome Glisse
Copyright 2009 Janusz Krzysztofik <jkrzyszt@tis.icnet.pl>
Copyright 2009 Intel Corporation; author: H. Peter Anvin
Copyright 2009 Intel Corporation; author H. Peter Anvin
Copyright 2009 Intel Corporation. Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright 2009 Intel Corp. Author: Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright 2009 Integrated Device Technology, Inc. Alex Bounine
<alexandre.bounine@idt.com>
Copyright 2009 Ilya Yanok, Emcraft Systems Ltd, yanok@emcraft.com
Copyright 2009 Harris Corporation, Steven A. Falco <sfalco@harris.com>
Copyright 2009 Guennadi Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright 2009 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright 2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2009 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2009 Felipe Balbi <me@felipebalbi.com>
Copyright 2009 Daniel Ribeiro <drwyrm@gmail.com>
Copyright 2009 Cyber Switching, Inc.
Copyright 2009 CompuLab, Ltd.
Copyright 2009 Christian Pellegrin EVOL S.r.l.
Copyright 2009 Christian König.
Copyright 2009 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp benh@kernel.crashing.org
Copyright 2009 Ben Skeggs
Copyright 2009 Andy Green <andy@warmcat.com>
Copyright 2009 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2009 Alessandro Rubini
Copyright 2009 Alberto Panizzo <maramaopercheseimorto@gmail.com>
Copyright 2009 Albert Herranz <albert_herranz@yahoo.es>
Copyright 2009 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2009 AbsoluteValue Systems <solomon@linux-wlan.com>
Copyright 2009 AMCC (AppliedMicro) <ttnguyen@amcc.com>
Copyright 2009 - 2022 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2009 - 2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2009 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2009 - 2013 Integrated Device Technology, Inc. Alex Bounine
<alexandre.bounine@idt.com>
Copyright 2009 - 2010 DENX Software Engineering. Anatolij Gustschin
<agust@denx.de>
Copyright 2009	Luis R. Rodriguez <lrodriguez@atheros.com>
Copyright 2009	Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2008/2009 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 2008-2021 VMware, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2008-2014 Altera Corporation
Copyright 2008-2013 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2008-2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2008-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2011 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2008-2011 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2011 DENX Software Engineering GmbH Author: Heiko Schocher
<hs@denx.de>
Copyright 2008-2011	Luis R. Rodriguez <mcgrof@qca.qualcomm.com>
Copyright 2008-2010 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Copyright 2008-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2008-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2010 DENX Software Engineering, Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2008-2010 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2008-2010	Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2008-2009: Marvell Corporation, all rights reserved.
Copyright 2008-2009, 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2009 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2008-2009 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2008-2009 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2008-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Author:
Alan Carvalho de Assis <acassis@gmail.com>
Copyright 2008-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2008-2009 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2008-2009 DENX Software Engineering, Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2008-2009	Luis R. Rodriguez <mcgrof@qca.qualcomm.com>
Copyright 2008-2009	Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2008-12 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2008-12 Wolfson Microelectronics
Copyright 2008-11 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Mark Brown
<broonie@opensource.wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright 2008,2012,2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008,2010 Anton Vorontsov <cbouatmailru@gmail.com>
Copyright 2008,2009 Ben Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org> IBM Corp.
Copyright 2008, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2008, Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright 2008, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>
Copyright 2008, Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2008, Intel Corporation
Copyright 2008, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2008, Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2008, 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008, 2009 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Mark Brown
<broonie@opensource.wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright 2008, 2009 Luis R. Rodriguez <lrodriguez@atheros.com>
Copyright 2008, 2009 Intel Corporation.
Copyright 2008 rPath, Inc. - All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2008 ioogle, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2008 by Steven Rostedt, Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2008 by Martin Bachem (info@bachem-it.com)
Copyright 2008 by Konrad Rzeszutek <ketuzsezr@darnok.org>
Copyright 2008 by Karsten Keil (kkeil@suse.de)
Copyright 2008 by Karsten Keil <kkeil@novell.com>
Copyright 2008 by Andreas Eversberg (jolly@eversberg.eu)
Copyright 2008 by Andreas Eversberg <andreas@eversberg.eu>
Copyright 2008 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright 2008 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Mark Brown
<broonie@opensource.wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright 2008 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Liam Girdwood
<lrg@slimlogic.co.uk>
Copyright 2008 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2008 Wolfson Microelectronics
Copyright 2008 Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@grandegger.com>
Copyright 2008 Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@denx.de>
Copyright 2008 Vitaly Mayatskikh <vmayatsk@redhat.com>
Copyright 2008 Thomas Bogendoerfer <tsbogend@franken.de>
Copyright 2008 Thomas Bogendoerfer <tsbogend@alpha.franken.de>
Copyright 2008 Stuart Bennett
Copyright 2008 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>, DENX Software Engineering
Copyright 2008 SlimLogic Ltd.
Copyright 2008 Simtec Electronics,
Copyright 2008 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2008 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Copyright 2008 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2008 Simtec Electronics
Copyright 2008 SigmaTel, Inc
Copyright 2008 Sean MacLennan, PIKA Technologies
Copyright 2008 Sascha Hauer, kernel@pengutronix.de
Copyright 2008 Samsung Electronics. Author: Ryu Euiyoul ryu.real@gmail.com
Copyright 2008 Rusty Russell IBM Corporation
Copyright 2008 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2008 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright 2008 Red Hat <mjg@redhat.com>
Copyright 2008 Realtek Microelectronics Author: flove <flove@realtek.com> Ethan
<eku@marvell.com>
Copyright 2008 Realtek Microelectronics
Copyright 2008 Pierre Ossman
Copyright 2008 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2008 PIKA Technologies Sean MacLennan <smaclennan@pikatech.com>
Copyright 2008 Openmoko, Inc. Simtec Electronics, Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2008 Openmoko, Inc.
Copyright 2008 Openmoko Inc.
Copyright 2008 Nokia Corporation.
Copyright 2008 Nick Forbes <nick.forbes@incepta.com>
Copyright 2008 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2008 Michael Wu <flamingice@sourmilk.net>
Copyright 2008 Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2008 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright 2008 Marvell. <kewei@marvell.com>
Copyright 2008 Luotao Fu, kernel@pengutronix.de
Copyright 2008 Luis Carlos Cobo <luisca@cozybit.com>
Copyright 2008 Kristoffer Ericson <kristoffer.ericson@gmail.com> Richard Purdie.
Copyright 2008 Juergen Beisert, kernel@pengutronix.de
Copyright 2008 Jouni Malinen <jouni.malinen@atheros.com>
Copyright 2008 Jon Smirl, Digispeaker Author: Jon Smirl <jonsmirl@gmail.com>
Copyright 2008 Jon Loeliger, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008 Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2008 Jerome Glisse. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2008 JMicron Technology Corporation https://www.jmicron.com/
Copyright 2008 Intel Corporation.
Copyright 2008 Intel Corporation Author: Andi Kleen
Copyright 2008 Intel Corporation <hong.liu@intel.com>
Copyright 2008 Ian Molton <spyro@f2s.com>
Copyright 2008 Ian Kent <raven@themaw.net>
Copyright 2008 IBM, Inc. by Konrad Rzeszutek <konradr@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2008 IBM Corporation, 2008 Author Mel Gorman <mel@csn.ul.ie>
Copyright 2008 IBM Corporation Author: Nathan Lynch
Copyright 2008 IBM Corporation
Copyright 2008 IBM Corp. Josh Boyer <jwboyer@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2008 IBM Corp.
Copyright 2008 Guennadi Liakhovetski, DENX Software Engineering, <lg@denx.de>
Copyright 2008 Giuseppe Coviello <gicoviello@gmail.com>
Copyright 2008 Gerhard Pircher (gerhard_pircher@gmx.net)
Copyright 2008 GE Intelligent Platforms Embedded Systems, Inc.
Copyright 2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Written By Michael Meissner
Copyright 2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.  Kumar Gala
Copyright 2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2008 Frank Edelhaeuser, Spansion Inc.
Copyright 2008 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright 2008 Eric Piel
Copyright 2008 Emerson
Copyright 2008 Embedded Alley Solutions, Inc.
Copyright 2008 Embedded Alley Solutions, Inc All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2008 Embedded Alley Solutions, Inc
Copyright 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright 2008 DENX Software Engineering, Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2008 DENX Software Engineering GmbH Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright 2008 DENX Software Engineering
Copyright 2008 Colin McCabe <colin@cozybit.com>
Copyright 2008 Codehermit
Copyright 2008 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2008 Christoph Hellwig, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2008 Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@web.de>
Copyright 2008 Cavium Networks Scott Shu
Copyright 2008 Cavium Networks Richard Liu <richard.liu@caviumnetworks.com>
Copyright 2008 Cavium Networks
Copyright 2008 Ben Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org> IBM Corp.
Copyright 2008 Ben Gamari <bgamari@gmail.com>
Copyright 2008 Ben Dooks <ben-linux@fluff.org>
Copyright 2008 Atmel
Copyright 2008 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2008 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2008 ARM Limited
Copyright 2008 AMCC <tmarri@amcc.com>
Copyright 2008 - 2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2008 - 2016 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2008 - 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2008 - 2013 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright 2008 (c) Kristoffer Ericson <kristoffer.ericson@gmail.com>
Copyright 2008 (c) Intel Corporation Jesse Barnes <jbarnes@virtuousgeek.org>
Copyright 2008 (c) Frederic Weisbecker <fweisbec@gmail.com>
Copyright 2008 (C) Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it>
Copyright 2008 (C) Eurotech S.p.A. <info@eurotech.it>
Copyright 2007-8 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2007-2021 VMware, Inc.
Copyright 2007-2013 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2007-2012 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2007-2012 Siemens AG
Copyright 2007-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2007-2011 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2007-2010, Intel Corporation
Copyright 2007-2010 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Graeme Gregory
Graeme.Gregory@wolfsonmicro.com
Copyright 2007-2010 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright 2007-2010 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2007-2010 Red Hat, Inc. by Peter Jones <pjones@redhat.com>
Copyright 2007-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2007-2010	Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2007-2009 Stuart Bennett
Copyright 2007-2009 Johannes Berg
Copyright 2007-2009 HV Sistemas S.L.
Copyright 2007-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2007-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2007-2009 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2007-2009 DENX Software Engineering, Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2007-2009	Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2007-2008,2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2007-2008, Intel Corporation
Copyright 2007-2008 rPath, Inc. - All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2007-2008 by Hans de Goede)
Copyright 2007-2008 Wolfson Microelectronics
Copyright 2007-2008 Pierre Ossman
Copyright 2007-2008 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2007-2008 OpenedHand Ltd.
Copyright 2007-2008 Nouveau Project
Copyright 2007-2008 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2007-2008 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright 2007-2008 Jaime Velasco Juan <jsagarribay@gmail.com>
Copyright 2007-2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2007-2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2007-2008 Extreme Engineering Solutions, Inc.
Copyright 2007-2008 Anton Vorontsov <cbouatmailru@gmail.com>
Copyright 2007-2008	Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2007-11 Wolfson Microelectronics, plc
Copyright 2007-11 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2007,2020 VMware, Inc.
Copyright 2007,2014 Andrea Merello <andrea.merello@gmail.com>
Copyright 2007,2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
Copyright 2007,2008 Simtec Electronics
Copyright 2007,2008 Kristoffer Ericson <Kristoffer.Ericson@gmail.com>
Copyright 2007,2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2007,2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2007, Werner Cornelius <werner@cornelius-consult.de>
Copyright 2007, Red Hat Inc. Peter Zijlstra
Copyright 2007, Olof Johansson, PA Semi
Copyright 2007, Michael Wu <flamingice@sourmilk.net>
Copyright 2007, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2007, Lennart Poettering
Copyright 2007, IBM Corporation
Copyright 2007, Frank A Kingswood <frank@kingswood-consulting.co.uk>
Copyright 2007, Domen Puncer <domen.puncer@telargo.com>
Copyright 2007, Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2007, Aurelien Jarno <aurelien@aurel32.net>
Copyright 2007, 2011, Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2007, 2009 CompuLab, Ltd.
Copyright 2007, 2008, 2009 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2007, 2008 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2007, 2008 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC
Copyright 2007, 2008 Siemens AG
Copyright 2007, 2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2007 rPath, Inc. - All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2007 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Graeme Gregory
graeme.gregory@wolfsonmicro.com or linux@wolfsonmicro.com
Copyright 2007 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Graeme Gregory
graeme.gregory@wolfsonmicro.com
Copyright 2007 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. - linux@wolfsonmicro.com Graeme
Gregory - graeme.gregory@wolfsonmicro.com
Copyright 2007 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC
Copyright 2007 Wind River Systems Inc.
Copyright 2007 Thorben Jändling <tj.trevelyan@gmail.com>
Copyright 2007 Steven Brown <sbrown@cortland.com>
Copyright 2007 Stephane Marchesin All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2007 Sony Corporation
Copyright 2007 Sony Corp.
Copyright 2007 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2007 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2007 Simtec Electronics <linux@simtec.co.uk>
http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Copyright 2007 Simtec Electronics
Copyright 2007 Sebastian Siewior
Copyright 2007 SBS Technologies GmbH & Co. KG
Copyright 2007 Rusty Russell IBM Corporation
Copyright 2007 Rusty Russell <rusty@rustcorp.com.au> IBM Corporation
Copyright 2007 Russell King
Copyright 2007 Red Hat, Inc. by Peter Jones <pjones@redhat.com>
Copyright 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2007 Raymarine UK, Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Written under contract
by: Chris Elston, Katalix Systems, Ltd.
Copyright 2007 Raymarine UK, Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2007 Ralink Inc. (bruce_chang@ralinktech.com.tw)
Copyright 2007 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>
Copyright 2007 Pierre Ossman
Copyright 2007 Pengutronix Juergen Beisert <j.beisert@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2007 Oyvind Repvik
Copyright 2007 Openmoko Inc Author: Graeme Gregory <graeme@openmoko.org>
Copyright 2007 OpenVZ SWsoft Inc Author: Pavel Emelianov <xemul@openvz.org>
Copyright 2007 Oliver Jowett <oliver@opencloud.com>
Copyright 2007 OProfile authors author Philippe Elie
Copyright 2007 OProfile authors Jens Wilke Daniel Hansel
Copyright 2007 Nuova Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2007 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2007 MontaVista Software, Inc
Copyright 2007 Michael Wu <flamingice@sourmilk.net>
Copyright 2007 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright 2007 Matthieu CASTET <castet.matthieu@free.fr> All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2007 Maarten Maathuis
Copyright 2007 Juergen Beisert @ Pengutronix (j.beisert@pengutronix.de)
Copyright 2007 Jon Loeliger, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2007 Jon Loeliger
Copyright 2007 Jiri Kosina, SUSE Labs.
Copyright 2007 Jan D. Louw <jd.louw@mweb.co.za>
Copyright 2007 Intel Corporation Author: Matthew Wilcox <willy@linux.intel.com>
Copyright 2007 Intel Corporation <jonathan.lynch@intel.com>
Copyright 2007 IBM, Inc. by Konrad Rzeszutek <konradr@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2007 IBM Corporation. Josh Boyer <jwboyer@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2007 IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2007 IBM Corporation
Copyright 2007 IBM Corp. Hugh Blemings <hugh@au.ibm.com> Josh Boyer
<jwboyer@linux.vnet.ibm.com>, David Gibson <dwg@au1.ibm.com>
Copyright 2007 IBM Corp
Copyright 2007 Hugh Blemings, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2007 Holger Schurig
Copyright 2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Scott Wood
<scottwood@freescale.com>
Copyright 2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2007 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2007 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright 2007 Dension Audio Systems Ltd. Author: Zoltan Devai
Copyright 2007 Davud Gibson, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2007 David Gibson, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2007 David Gibson, IBM Corporatio.
Copyright 2007 David Gibson <dwg@au1.ibm.com>, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2007 Dave Airlied All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2007 DENX Software Engineering, Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright 2007 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp. benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 2007 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2007 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 2007 Ben. Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2007 Andy Wilcox, Jon Loeliger
Copyright 2007 Andy Green <andy@warmcat.com>
Copyright 2007 Andrea Merello <andrea.merello@gmail.com>
Copyright 2007 Andi Kleen, SUSE Labs.
Copyright 2007 (c) Ian Molton <spyro@f2s.com>
Copyright 2007 (C) Oyvind Repvik (nail@nslu2-linux.org)
Copyright 2007	Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2006-7 Jonathan Corbet <corbet@lwn.net>
Copyright 2006-2015 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2006-2013 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2006-2012 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2006-2012 HighPoint Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2006-2011 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2006-2010 Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2006-2010	Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2006-2009 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Liam Girdwood
<lrg@slimlogic.co.uk>
Copyright 2006-2009 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2006-2009 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2006-2009 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2006-2008, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2006-2008, Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright 2006-2008, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2006-2008, 2011-2012, 2015 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2006-2008 Tungsten Graphics, Inc., Cedar Park, TX. USA.
Copyright 2006-2008 Sam Ravnborg
Copyright 2006-2008 Qumranet Technologies
Copyright 2006-2008 Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2006-2007,2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2006-2007, Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2006-2007 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd. Grant Likely
<grant.likely@secretlab.ca>
Copyright 2006-2007 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd.
Copyright 2006-2007 Pierre Ossman
Copyright 2006-2007 Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2006-2007 Jonathan Corbet
Copyright 2006-2007 Jiri Benc <jbenc@suse.cz>
Copyright 2006-2007 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2006-2007 Helge Deller (deller@gmx.de)
Copyright 2006-2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2006-2007 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright 2006-2007	Jiri Benc <jbenc@suse.cz>
Copyright 2006-12 Wolfson Microelectronics, plc
Copyright 2006-12 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Liam Girdwood
<lrg@slimlogic.co.uk>
Copyright 2006-11 One Laptop Per Child Association, Inc.
Copyright 2006-11 Jonathan Corbet <corbet@lwn.net>
Copyright 2006-10 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Liam Girdwood
<lrg@slimlogic.co.uk>
Copyright 2006, Segher Boessenkool, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2006, Red Hat, Inc., Dave Jones
Copyright 2006, Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright 2006, Michael Buesch
Copyright 2006, Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2006, Devicescape Software, Inc.
Copyright 2006, 2008, 2011-2012 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2006, 2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc. 2006 Roy Zang <Roy Zang at
freescale.com>.
Copyright 2006, 2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2006, 2007, Michael Buesch <mb@bu3sch.de>
Copyright 2006, 2007, Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright 2006, 2007, Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright 2006, 2007 Sony Corporation.
Copyright 2006, 2007 Sony Corporation All rights reserved.
Copyright 2006, 2007 Sony Corporation
Copyright 2006 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Liam Girdwood
<lrg@slimlogic.co.uk>
Copyright 2006 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2006 Wolfson Microelectronics
Copyright 2006 Tungsten Graphics, Inc., Bismarck, ND., USA. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2006 Tungsten Graphics, Inc., Bismarck, ND., USA.
Copyright 2006 Tungsten Graphics, Inc., Bismarck, ND. USA. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2006 Tungsten Graphics Inc., Bismarck, ND., USA.
Copyright 2006 Tower Technologies, Alessandro Zummo <a.zummo at towertech.it>
Copyright 2006 Tejun Heo <teheo@novell.com>
Copyright 2006 Tejun Heo <htejun@gmail.com>
Copyright 2006 Stephane Marchesin
Copyright 2006 Stefan Roese, DENX Software Engineering
Copyright 2006 Stefan Roese <sr at denx.de>, DENX Software Engineering
Copyright 2006 Sony Corp.
Copyright 2006 Simtec Electronics
Copyright 2006 SUSE Linux Products GmbH
Copyright 2006 Rob Landley <rob@landley.net> and TimeSys Corporation.
Copyright 2006 Phil Sutter <n0-1@freewrt.org>
Copyright 2006 Pengutronix Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright 2006 PathScale, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2006 Openedhand Ltd.
Copyright 2006 One Laptop Per Child Association, Inc. Written by Jonathan Corbet
Copyright 2006 Moschip Semiconductor Tech. Ltd.
Copyright 2006 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2006 Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright 2006 Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation
Copyright 2006 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright 2006 Martin Večeřa.
Copyright 2006 Marcin Juszkiewicz openembedded@hrw.one.pl>
Copyright 2006 Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2006 Jake Moilanen <moilanen@austin.ibm.com>, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2006 IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2006 IBM Corporation Author(s): Jennifer Hunt <jenhunt@us.ibm.com>
Copyright 2006 IBM Corp., Christian Krafft <krafft@de.ibm.com>
Copyright 2006 IBM
Copyright 2006 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
Copyright 2006 Herbert Valerio Riedel <hvr@gnu.org>
Copyright 2006 Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
Copyright 2006 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Shlomi Gridish
<gridish@freescale.com> Jerry Huang <Chang-Ming.Huang@freescale.com>
Copyright 2006 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2006 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright 2006 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright 2006 Endrelia Technologies Inc.
Copyright 2006 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright 2006 Dave Airlie <airlied@linux.ie>
Copyright 2006 Dave Airlie
Copyright 2006 Bob Copeland <me@bobcopeland.com>
Copyright 2006 Ben Dooks <ben-linux@fluff.org>
Copyright 2006 Arcom Control Systems Ltd.
Copyright 2006 Applied Micro Circuits Corporation
Copyright 2006 Andi Kleen, SUSE Labs. Stefani Seibold <stefani@seibold.net>
sponsored by Rohde & Schwarz GmbH & Co. KG Munich/Germany
Copyright 2006 Andi Kleen, SUSE Labs.
Copyright 2006 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2006 ATMEL Rousset, Lacressonniere Nicolas
Copyright 2006 - Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright 2006 (c) MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2006	Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright 2005: EMC Corporation, all rights reserved.
Copyright 2005/2006 Red Hat, all rights reserved.
Copyright 2005/2006 Red Hat Inc, all rights reserved.
Copyright 2005-2020 IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2005-2019 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2005-2018 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2005-2015 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2005-2013 Solarflare Communications Inc.
Copyright 2005-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2005-2011 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2005-2009 Simtec Electronics
Copyright 2005-2009 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2005-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2005-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2005-2009 - Steven Rostedt
Copyright 2005-2008, Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2005-2008 Pierre Ossman
Copyright 2005-2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2005-2008 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright 2005-2007 Rodolfo Giometti
Copyright 2005-2007 Openedhand Ltd.
Copyright 2005-2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2005-2006,2013,2017-2018 Ian Kent <raven@themaw.net>
Copyright 2005-2006, Devicescape Software, Inc.
Copyright 2005-2006 Red Hat Inc, all rights reserved.
Copyright 2005-2006 Openedhand Ltd. Author: Richard Purdie
<rpurdie@openedhand.com>
Copyright 2005-2006 Openedhand Ltd.
Copyright 2005-2006 Luc Verhaegen
Copyright 2005-2006 Ian Kent <raven@themaw.net>
Copyright 2005-2006 Fen Systems Ltd.
Copyright 2005-2006 Erik Waling
Copyright 2005-2006	Jiri Benc <jbenc@suse.cz>
Copyright 2005-06 Tower Technologies
Copyright 2005,2008 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Liam Girdwood Mark
Brown <broonie@opensource.wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright 2005,2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2005,2007 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2005,2007 Simtec Electronics
Copyright 2005,2006 Hebert Valerio Riedel <hvr@gnu.org>
Copyright 2005, Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar 
Copyright 2005, Paul Mackerras, IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2005, Embedded Alley Solutions, Inc. Matt Porter
<mporter@embeddedalley.com>
Copyright 2005, Devicescape Software, Inc.
Copyright 2005, Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2005, 2011-2012 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2005, 2011, Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2005, 2008, 2010-2011 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2005, 2007 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2005, 2006, 2007 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2005, 2006 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2005 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Liam Girdwood
lrg@slimlogic.co.uk
Copyright 2005 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Liam Girdwood
<lrg@slimlogic.co.uk>
Copyright 2005 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Graeme Gregory
graeme.gregory@wolfsonmicro.com or linux@wolfsonmicro.com
Copyright 2005 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright 2005 Thomas Hellstrom. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2005 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright 2005 Tejun Heo
Copyright 2005 Stephane Marchesin. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2005 Stanislav Marek email: pisa@cmp.felk.cvut.cz
Copyright 2005 Simtec Electronics http://www.simtec.co.uk/products/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2005 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Copyright 2005 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2005 Simtec Electronics
Copyright 2005 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2005 Red Hat Inc, all rights reserved.
Copyright 2005 Phil Blundell
Copyright 2005 Pacific Digital Corporation.
Copyright 2005 Openedhand Ltd.
Copyright 2005 Nicolai Haehnle et al.
Copyright 2005 MontaVista Software, Inc. Matt Porter
<mporter@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 2005 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2005 MontaVista Software
Copyright 2005 Mentor Graphics Corporation
Copyright 2005 Matthew Wilcox <matthew@wil.cx>
Copyright 2005 Mark Lord
Copyright 2005 Lab126, Inc.
Copyright 2005 John Lenz <lenz@cs.wisc.edu> Maintainer: Pavel Machek
<pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright 2005 IBM Corporation
Copyright 2005 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
Copyright 2005 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2005 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
Copyright 2005 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2005 Freescale Inc.
Copyright 2005 Eric Anholt All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2005 Dan Williams and Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2005 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp.
Copyright 2005 Andrea Merello <andrea.merello@gmail.com>, et al.
Copyright 2005 Andi Kleen, SUSE Labs.
Copyright 2005 Andi Kleen <ak@suse.de>
Copyright 2005 Alessandro Zummo
Copyright 2005 Alejandro Vidal Mata & Javier Vidal Mata.
Copyright 2005 - 2011, Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2005 (c) MontaVista Software, Inc. Author: Deepak Saxena
<dsaxena@plexity.net>
Copyright 2005 (c) MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2005 (c) Andriy Skulysh <askulysh@gmail.com>
Copyright 2005 (C) MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2005 (C) Jes Sorensen <jes@trained-monkey.org>
Copyright 2004-2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2004-2013 Synopsys, Inc.
Copyright 2004-2011 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2004-2009 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2004-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2004-2008 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Copyright 2004-2008 Simtec Electronics
Copyright 2004-2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2004-2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2004-2007, 2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2004-2007, 2010-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2004-2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2004-2006, Intel Corporation
Copyright 2004-2006 Simtec Electronics
Copyright 2004-2006 Pavel Pisa
Copyright 2004-2006 Jean-Baptiste Note <jean-baptiste.note@m4x.org>, et al.
Copyright 2004-2006 Jean-Baptiste Note <jbnote@gmail.com>, et al.
Copyright 2004-2006 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2004-2005 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2004-2005 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2004-2005 Red Hat, Inc. Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@pobox.com>
Copyright 2004-2005 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2004-2005 Phil Blundell <pb@handhelds.org>
Copyright 2004-2005 Phil Blundell
Copyright 2004-2005 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2004-2005 Andrea Merello <andrea.merello@gmail.com>, et al.
Copyright 2004-2005 Andrea Arcangeli <andrea@cpushare.com>
Copyright 2004-2005 AMD Author: AMD
Copyright 2004,2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
Copyright 2004,2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2004,2007,2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
Copyright 2004,2006 Thibaut VARENE <varenet@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright 2004, Matt Porter <mporter@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 2004, Instant802 Networks, Inc.
Copyright 2004, 2007, 2008 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Mark Brown
<broonie@opensource.wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright 2004, 2007 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Liam Girdwood
<lrg@slimlogic.co.uk>
Copyright 2004 Zwane Mwaikambo <zwane@linuxpower.ca>
Copyright 2004 Uwe Koziolek
Copyright 2004 The Unichrome project. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2004 SuperH (UK) Ltd Author: Richard Curnow
Copyright 2004 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2004 Simtec Electronics
Copyright 2004 Simon Kelley.
Copyright 2004 SGI
Copyright 2004 Randolph Chung (tausq@debian.org)
Copyright 2004 Philip Rischel <rischelp@idt.com>
Copyright 2004 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright 2004 Pavel Machek <pavel@suse.cz>
Copyright 2004 Paul Mackerras <paulus@samba.org>
Copyright 2004 NVIDIA Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2004 Motorola Inc.
Copyright 2004 MontaVista Software, Inc. Matt Porter
<mporter@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 2004 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2004 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2004 Matt Porter <mporter@kernel.crashing.org> 2004 Bjoern Riemer,
riemer@fokus.fraunhofer.de or riemer@riemer-nt.de
Copyright 2004 Matt Mackall <mpm@selenic.com>
Copyright 2004 Linus Torvalds
Copyright 2004 Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV
Copyright 2004 Koen Kooi <koen@vestingbar.nl>
Copyright 2004 Karen Spearel
Copyright 2004 James Cleverdon, IBM.
Copyright 2004 J. Mayer <l_indien@magic.fr>
Copyright 2004 Interface Co.,Ltd. Saito.K
Copyright 2004 IDT Inc. (rischelp@idt.com)
Copyright 2004 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc Kumar Gala
<galak@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 2004 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright 2004 Felix Kuehling All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2004 Embedded Edge, LLC dan@embeddededge.com
Copyright 2004 Embedded Edge, LLC
Copyright 2004 Digeo, Inc., Palo Alto, CA, U.S.A. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2004 Ben Dooks, Simtec Electronics
Copyright 2004 BEAM Ltd.
Copyright 2004 Arnaud Patard <arnaud.patard@rtp-net.org>
Copyright 2004 Arcom Control Systems
Copyright 2004 Antonino Daplas <adaplas@pol.net>
Copyright 2004 Antonino A. Daplas <adaplas @pol.net>
Copyright 2004 Andrew Chew
Copyright 2004 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs.
Copyright 2004 ATI Technologies Inc., Markham, Ontario
Copyright 2004 ARM Limited
Copyright 2004 AMD Author:	AMD
Copyright 2004 (c) Stuart Brady
Copyright 2004 (c) MontaVista, Software, Inc.
Copyright 2004 (c) MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2004 (C) Intel Corp.
Copyright 2003-2009,2014-2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2003-2009 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2003-2009 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2003-2009 Red Hat Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2003-2008, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>
Copyright 2003-2008 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2003-2007 Red Hat Inc., Durham, North Carolina. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2003-2006, Intel Corporation
Copyright 2003-2006, 2008-2009, 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2003-2006 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2003-2006 Jeff Garzik
Copyright 2003-2005 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2003-2005 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2003-2005 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2003-2005 Red Hat Inc
Copyright 2003-2005 Jeff Garzik
Copyright 2003-2005 Chelsio Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2003-2005	Devicescape Software, Inc.
Copyright 2003-2004, Instant802 Networks, Inc.
Copyright 2003-2004 Simon Kelley.
Copyright 2003-2004 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2003-2004 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2003-2004 Red Hat Inc., Durham, North Carolina. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2003-2004 Red Hat Inc., Durham, North Carolina.
Copyright 2003-2004 Jeff Garzik
Copyright 2003-2004 (C) MontaVista, Software, Inc.
Copyright 2003-11 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Liam Girdwood
<lrg@slimlogic.co.uk>
Copyright 2003,2004 Ryan Bradetich <rbrad@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright 2003,2004 Ben. Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 2003,2004 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs.
Copyright 2003,2004 Andi Kleen SuSE Labs
Copyright 2003, Jouni Malinen <jkmaline@cc.hut.fi>
Copyright 2003, Instant802 Networks, Inc.
Copyright 2003, 2008 Pavel Machek <pavel@suse.cz
Copyright 2003, 2008 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista Software, Inc.
<source@mvista.com>
Copyright 2003, 2007 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Author: Liam Girdwood <lrg@slimlogic.co.uk>
Copyright 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author:
Liam Girdwood <lrg@slimlogic.co.uk>
Copyright 2003, 2004 (c) MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright 2003 mjander mjander@users.sourceforge.org
Copyright 2003 mjander mjander@users.sourceforge.net
Copyright 2003 by Hans-Joerg Frieden and Thomas Frieden
Copyright 2003 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Author: Liam Girdwood
<lrg@slimlogic.co.uk>
Copyright 2003 Wichert Akkerman <wichert@wiggy.net>
Copyright 2003 Vivien Chappelier <vivien.chappelier@linux-mips.org>
Copyright 2003 Tungsten Graphics, Inc., Cedar Park, Texas. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2003 Thiemo Seufer <seufer@csv.ica.uni-stuttgart.de>
Copyright 2003 SuSE Linux AG.
Copyright 2003 Sony Corporation
Copyright 2003 Simtec Electronics (linux@simtec.co.uk)
Copyright 2003 Simon Kelley.
Copyright 2003 Rick Bronson
Copyright 2003 Pavel Machek <pavel@suse.cz
Copyright 2003 PathScale, Inc.
Copyright 2003 PathScale Inc
Copyright 2003 NVIDIA, Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2003 NVIDIA, Corporation
Copyright 2003 MontaVista Software Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright 2003 Matthew T. Russotto
Copyright 2003 Leif Delgass. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2003 Kai Germaschewski
Copyright 2003 José Fonseca.
Copyright 2003 Jonathan Corbet <corbet@lwn.net>
Copyright 2003 Intel Corporation
Copyright 2003 ICT CAS Author: Michael Guo <guoyi@ict.ac.cn>
Copyright 2003 H. Peter Anvin - All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2003 Grant Grundler <grundler parisc-linux org>
Copyright 2003 Digi International (www.digi.com) Scott H Kilau <Scott_Kilau at
digi dot com>
Copyright 2003 Digi International (www.digi.com)
Copyright 2003 Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 2003 Benjamin Herrenschmidt
Copyright 2003 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs.
Copyright 2003 Adaptec Inc. 691 S. Milpitas Blvd., Milpitas CA 95035 USA. All
rights reserved.
Copyright 2003 Adaptec Inc. 691 S. Milpitas Blvd., Milpitas CA 95035 USA.
Copyright 2003 Adam Belay <ambx1@neo.rr.com>
Copyright 2003 - 2006 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2003 (c) MontaVista, Software, Inc.
Copyright 2003 (c) Laurent Canet
Copyright 2003	Ben. Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 2002/2003 by Andreas Eversberg (jolly@eversberg.eu)  Peter
Copyright 2002/2003 by Andreas Eversberg (jolly@eversberg.eu)
Copyright 2002-2009, 2011-2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2002-2007 H. Peter Anvin - All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2002-2007 H. Peter Anvin
Copyright 2002-2005, Instant802 Networks, Inc.
Copyright 2002-2005, Devicescape Software, Inc.
Copyright 2002-2005 MontaVista Software, Inc. Matt Porter
<mporter@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 2002-2005 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2002-2004, Instant802 Networks, Inc.
Copyright 2002-2004, 2008-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright 2002-2004 Rusty Russell, IBM Corporation
Copyright 2002-2004 MontaVista Software, Inc. Matt Porter
<mporter@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 2002-2004 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2002-2004 H. Peter Anvin - All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2002-2003, Stephen Frost
Copyright 2002-2003, Instant802 Networks, Inc.
Copyright 2002-2003 Rusty Russell, IBM Corporation 2003 Kai Germaschewski
Copyright 2002-2003 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2002-2003 : Convergence GmbH
Copyright 2002,2004 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2002,2003 by Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs
Copyright 2002,2003 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs.
Copyright 2002, Phil Karn, KA9Q
Copyright 2002, Jouni Malinen <jkmaline@cc.hut.fi>
Copyright 2002, 2003 Motorola Inc.
Copyright 2002, 2003 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs.
Copyright 2002, 2003 (C) Paul Mundt
Copyright 2002 by Mylex (An IBM Business Unit)
Copyright 2002 by Kai Germaschewski <kai@germaschewski.name>
Copyright 2002 by Kai Germaschewski <kai.germaschewski@gmx.de>
Copyright 2002 by Kai Germaschewski
Copyright 2002 by Andreas Eversberg (jolly@eversberg.eu)
Copyright 2002 by Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs
Copyright 2002 Tungsten Graphics, Inc., Cedar Park, Texas. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2002 Tungsten Graphics, Inc., Cedar Park, Texas. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2002 Tungsten Graphics, Inc., Cedar Park, Texas.
Copyright 2002 Tungsten Graphics, Inc.
Copyright 2002 TimeSys Corp.
Copyright 2002 SYSGO Real-Time Solutions GmbH
Copyright 2002 SOMA Networks, Inc.
Copyright 2002 Ryan Holm <ryan.holmQVist@idt.com>
Copyright 2002 Rusty Russell <rusty@rustcorp.com.au> IBM Corporation
Copyright 2002 Phil Karn, KA9Q
Copyright 2002 Pete Zaitcev <zaitcev@yahoo.com>
Copyright 2002 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista Software, Inc.
stevel@mvista.com or source@mvista.com
Copyright 2002 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: Michael Pruznick,
michael_pruznick@mvista.com
Copyright 2002 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2002 MontaVista Software Author: MontaVista Software, Inc.
ppopov@mvista.com or source@mvista.com
Copyright 2002 MontaVista Software
Copyright 2002 MontaVista Softare Inc.
Copyright 2002 Momentum Computer, Inc. Author: Matthew Dharm
<mdharm@momenco.com>
Copyright 2002 Martijn Sipkema
Copyright 2002 Karsten Merker <merker@debian.org>
Copyright 2002 Jamey Hicks <jamey.hicks@hp.com>
Copyright 2002 James Simmons
Copyright 2002 Intel (eli.kupermann@intel.com, christopher.leech@intel.com,
scott.feldman@intel.com)
Copyright 2002 Integrated Device Technology, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2002 Hewlett-Packard Company
Copyright 2002 H. Peter Anvin - All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2002 H. Peter Anvin
Copyright 2002 GALILEO TECHNOLOGY, LTD.
Copyright 2002 Embedded Edge, LLC Author: dan@embeddededge.com
Copyright 2002 Christer Weingel <wingel@nano-system.com>
Copyright 2002 Andy Grover <andrew.grover@intel.com>
Copyright 2002 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs. Thanks to Ben LaHaise
Copyright 2002 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs.
Copyright 2002 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs
Copyright 2002 Andi Kleen <ak@suse.de>
Copyright 2002 Andi Kleen
Copyright 2002 Allend Stichter <allen.stichter@idt.com>
Copyright 2002 Alchemy Semiconductor Author: Alchemy Semiconductor
Copyright 2002 Alchemy Semiconductor Author:    Alchemy Semiconductor,
MontaVista Software
Copyright 2002 Adam Belay <ambx1@neo.rr.com>
Copyright 2002 (C) Intel Corporation
Copyright 2001-2012 IBM Corporation.
Copyright 2001-2011 S3 Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2001-2008 S3 Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2001-2006 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2001-2006 Ian Kent <raven@themaw.net>
Copyright 2001-2005 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2001-2004 Stelian Pop <stelian@popies.net>
Copyright 2001-2004 Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@pobox.com>
Copyright 2001-2003, 2007-2008 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista
Software, Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright 2001-2003, 2006 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2001-2003 SuSE Labs.
Copyright 2001-2003 S3 Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2001-2003 Pavel Machek <pavel@suse.cz>
Copyright 2001-2002 Pavel Machek <pavel@suse.cz>
Copyright 2001-2002 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2001-2002 Alcôve <www.alcove.com>
Copyright 2001,2005, Scott J. Bertin <scottbertin@yahoo.com>
Copyright 2001,2003 Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@pobox.com>
Copyright 2001,2002 by Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs.
Copyright 2001,2002 Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@mandrakesoft.com>
Copyright 2001,2002 Jeff Garzik
Copyright 2001, STMicrolectronics, Inc. Contact: steve.miller@st.com
Copyright 2001, STMicrolectronics, Inc.
Copyright 2001, Rik van Riel <riel@conectiva.com.br>
Copyright 2001, Nicolas Pitre reworked by rmk.
Copyright 2001, 2008 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista Software, Inc.
<source@mvista.com>
Copyright 2001, 2007-2008 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista Software,
Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright 2001, 2003-2005 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista Software,
Inc. ahennessy@mvista.com source@mvista.com
Copyright 2001, 2003-2005 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2001, 2002 by Robert Olsson <robert.olsson@its.uu.se> Uppsala
University and Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences
Copyright 2001, 2002 Red Hat.
Copyright 2001, 2002 - Jani Monoses <jani@iv.ro>
Copyright 2001 by Peter Sprenger (sprenger@moving-bytes.de)
Copyright 2001 by Micro Solutions, Inc.,
Copyright 2001 by Micro Solutions, Inc.
Copyright 2001 by Intel Corp.
Copyright 2001 by Intel Corp,
Copyright 2001 VA Linux Systems, Inc., Sunnyvale, California. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright 2001 Thomas Gleixner (gleixner@autronix.de)
Copyright 2001 Sun Microsystems (thockin@sun.com)
Copyright 2001 Resilience Corporation <ebrower@resilience.com>
Copyright 2001 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright 2001 Patrick Mochel <mochel@osdl.org>
Copyright 2001 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: jsun@mvista.com or
jsun@junsun.net
Copyright 2001 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista Software, Inc.
stevel@mvista.com or source@mvista.com
Copyright 2001 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista Software, Inc.
ppopov@mvista.com or source@mvista.com
Copyright 2001 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista Software, Inc.
ahennessy@mvista.com
Copyright 2001 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: Matt Porter <mporter@mvista.com>
Copyright 2001 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: Jun Sun, jsun@mvista.com or
jsun@junsun.net
Copyright 2001 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2001 MontaVista Softare Inc.
Copyright 2001 Matthew Wilcox
Copyright 2001 Manfred Spraul
Copyright 2001 Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@pobox.com>
Copyright 2001 Intel San Luis Obispo
Copyright 2001 H. Peter Anvin - All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2001 David Brownell
Copyright 2001 Compaq Computer Corporation.
Copyright 2001 Benjamin LaHaise.
Copyright 2001 Benjamin Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org)
Copyright 2001 Anton Blanchard (anton@samba.org)
Copyright 2001 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs.
Copyright 2001 - 2006 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright 2001 - 2005 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright 2001 - 2004 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright 2001 (c) Matthieu Delahaye
Copyright 2001 (c) Jean-Christophe Vaugeois
Copyright 2000-2020 Broadcom Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2000-2014 Avago Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2000-2010 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright 2000-2008 H. Peter Anvin - All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2000-2003 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2000-2003 Hewlett-Packard Company.
Copyright 2000-2003 (c) Helge Deller
Copyright 2000-2002 Jeff Garzik
Copyright 2000-2002 David Brownell
Copyright 2000-2002 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs.
Copyright 2000-2001, 2006-2008 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista
Software, Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright 2000-2001, 2006, 2008 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista
Software, Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright 2000-2001 ATMEL Corporation.
Copyright 2000,2009-2015 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
Copyright 2000,2004 (c) Grant Grundler <grundler()nahspam.parisc-linux.org>
Copyright 2000,2001,2002,2004 Dell Inc.
Copyright 2000,2001,2002,2003,2004,2005 Broadcom Corporation. All rights
reserved.
Copyright 2000,2001,2002,2003 Broadcom Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2000,2001,2002 Red Hat.
Copyright 2000,2001 The Linux Kernel Team
Copyright 2000,2001 Philipp Rumpf <prumpf@mandrakesoft.com>
Copyright 2000,2001 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright 2000,2001 Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@pobox.com>
Copyright 2000,2001 Dell Inc.
Copyright 2000, Axis Communications AB Ethereal Gerald Combs
<gerald@ethereal.com>
Copyright 2000, 2008 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista Software, Inc.
<source@mvista.com>
Copyright 2000, 2007-2008 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista Software,
Inc. <source@mvista.com
Copyright 2000, 2006 IBM Corporation Author(s):Alan Altmark
(Alan_Altmark@us.ibm.com) Xenia Tkatschow (xenia@us.ibm.com) Martin Schwidefsky
<schwidefsky@de.ibm.com>
Copyright 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 Broadcom Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2000, 2001, 2002 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2000, 2001 MontaVista Softare Inc.
Copyright 2000, 2001 (c) Trond Myklebust <trond.myklebust@fys.uio.no>
Copyright 2000 by Hans Reiser
Copyright 2000 by Digi International
Copyright 2000 VA Linux Systems, Inc., Sunnyvale, California. All rights
reserved.
Copyright 2000 VA Linux Systems, Inc., Sunnyvale, California. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright 2000 VA Linux Systems, Inc., Sunnyvale, California.
Copyright 2000 VA Linux Systems, Inc., Fremont, California. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2000 VA Linux Systems, Inc., Fremont, California.
Copyright 2000 Stuart Menefy (stuart.menefy@st.com)
Copyright 2000 Steven J. Hill (sjhill@cotw.com)
Copyright 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright 2000 Red Hat corp --- All Rights Reserved
Copyright 2000 Precision Insight, Inc., Cedar Park, Texas.
Copyright 2000 Paul Mackerras.
Copyright 2000 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: MontaVista Software, Inc.
frank_rowand@mvista.com or source@mvista.com debbie_chu@mvista.com
Copyright 2000 Linus Torvalds and Transmeta Corp.
Copyright 2000 John Ankcorn <jca@lcs.mit.edu>
Copyright 2000 Jakub Jelinek (jakub@redhat.com)
Copyright 2000 Hewlett Packard (Paul Bame, bame@puffin.external.hp.com)
Copyright 2000 Grant Grundler (grundler@cup.hp.com)
Copyright 2000 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd
Copyright 2000 Andrew Tridgell <tridge@samba.org>
Copyright 2000 ATI Technologies Inc., Markham, Ontario, and VA Linux Systems
Inc., Fremont, California.
Copyright 2000 - 2001 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright 2000 - 2001 Kanoj Sarcar (kanoj@sgi.com)
Copyright 2000 (c) Linuxcare Canada, Alex deVries
Copyright 2000 (c) Hewlett Packard (Paul Bame <bame()spam.parisc-linux.org>)
Copyright 2000	Ani Joshi <ajoshi@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright 1999-2020 : LinuxTV Developers
Copyright 1999-2018: Bill Dirks, Michael H. Schimek, Hans Verkuil, Martin Rubli,
Andy Walls, Muralidharan Karicheri, Mauro Carvalho Chehab, Pawel Osciak, Sakari
Ailus & Antti Palosaari, Tomasz Figa
Copyright 1999-2016 : LinuxTV Developers
Copyright 1999-2007 H. Peter Anvin - All Rights Reserved
Copyright 1999-2003 by Mitchell Blank Jr <mitch@sfgoth.com>
Copyright 1999-2002 Paul Mackerras.
Copyright 1999-2001 by Donald Becker. Written 1997-2001 by Donald Becker.
Copyright 1999-2001 Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@pobox.com>
Copyright 1999-2000 by Mitchell Blank Jr 995-1999 by Werner Almesberger
Copyright 1999-2000 Red Hat Software --- All Rights Reserved
Copyright 1999-2000 Maxim Krasnyansky <max_mk@yahoo.com>
Copyright 1999-2000 Maksim Yevmenkin <m_evmenkin@yahoo.com>
Copyright 1999-2000 Jeremy Fitzhardinge <jeremy@goop.org>
Copyright 1999-2000 Jeff Garzik
Copyright 1999,2000 Nortel Networks
Copyright 1999,2000 Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@pobox.com>
Copyright 1999, Thomas Davis, tadavis@lbl.gov.
Copyright 1999, 2000 Precision Insight, Inc., Cedar Park, Texas.
Copyright 1999 by Werner Cornelius (werner@isdn4linux.de)
Copyright 1999 by Werner Cornelius (werner@isdn-development.de)
Copyright 1999 by Carsten Paeth <calle@calle.de>
Copyright 1999 by Alex deVries <alex@onefishtwo.ca>
Copyright 1999 The Puffin Group, (Alex deVries, David Kennedy)
Copyright 1999 SuSE GmbH changed by Philipp Rumpf
Copyright 1999 SuSE GmbH Nuernberg (Philipp Rumpf, prumpf@tux.org)
Copyright 1999 SuSE GmbH (Philipp Rumpf, prumpf@tux.org)
Copyright 1999 SuSE GmbH (Philipp Rumpf)
Copyright 1999 Silicon Integrated System Corporation Revision:  1.08.10 Apr. 2
2006
Copyright 1999 Silicon Integrated System Corporation
Copyright 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright 1999 Roman Weissgaerber
Copyright 1999 Red Hat Software --- All Rights Reserved
Copyright 1999 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright 1999 Precision Insight, Inc., Cedar Park, Texas.
Copyright 1999 Philipp Rumpf (prumpf@tux.org)
Copyright 1999 Paul Mackerras.
Copyright 1999 Paul Mackerras  Jens Axboe
Copyright 1999 Linus Torvalds
Copyright 1999 Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@pobox.com>
Copyright 1999 Hewlett Packard Co.
Copyright 1999 Hans Reiser
Copyright 1999 Gregory P. Smith
Copyright 1999 Derrick J Brashear (shadow@dementia.org)
Copyright 1999 D. Jeff Dionne <jeff@rt-control.com>
Copyright 1999 Ben Pfaff and Petr Vandrovec
Copyright 1999 Ben Pfaff <pfaffben@debian.org> and Petr Vandrovec
<VANDROVE@vc.cvut.cz>
Copyright 1999 ARM Limited
Copyright 1999 - 2003 ARM Limited
Copyright 1999 (C) Niibe Yutaka
Copyright 1998-2021 VMware, Inc.
Copyright 1998-2015 VMware, Inc.
Copyright 1998-2011 VIA Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 1998-2009 VIA Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 1998-2008 VIA Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 1998-2004 H. Peter Anvin -- All Rights Reserved
Copyright 1998-2003 VIA Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 1998-2002 by Jes Sorensen, <jes@trained-monkey.org>.
Copyright 1998-2001 by Leonard N. Zubkoff <lnz@dandelion.com>
Copyright 1998-2001 by Jes Sorensen, <jes@trained-monkey.org>.
Copyright 1998-2000 SysKonnect,
Copyright 1998-2000 Red Hat, Inc --- All Rights Reserved
Copyright 1998-2000 Jonathan Teh Soon Yew
Copyright 1998-1999 Precision Insight, Inc., Cedar Park, Texas. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright 1998--1999 Red Hat corp --- All Rights Reserved
Copyright 1998,1999 SysKonnect, a business unit of Schneider & Koch & Co.
Datensysteme GmbH.
Copyright 1998, Michael Schmitz <mschmitz@lbl.gov>
Copyright 1998 by Franco Venturi.
Copyright 1998 by Egbert Eich <Egbert.Eich@Physik.TU-Darmstadt.DE>
Copyright 1998 Red Hat corp --- All Rights Reserved
Copyright 1998 Jonas Munsin <jmunsin@iki.fi>
Copyright 1998 Gerald Combs
Copyright 1998 Franco Venturi
Copyright 1998 Emagic Soft- und Hardware GmbH
Copyright 1998 Corey Thomas (corey@world.std.com)
Copyright 1998 C. van Schaik <carl@leg.uct.ac.za>
Copyright 1998 Ben Pfaff
Copyright 1997-2000, 2008 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright 1997-1998 Transmeta Corporation -- All Rights Reserved
Copyright 1997-1998 Transmeta Corporation - All Rights Reserved
Copyright 1997-1998 DAVICOM Semiconductor,Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 1997--2000 Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>
Copyright 1997--1999 Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>
Copyright 1997,1998 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright 1997, Theodore Ts'o
Copyright 1997 by Michael Schmitz
Copyright 1997 by Carsten Paeth (calle@calle.in-berlin.de)
Copyright 1997 by Carsten Paeth <calle@calle.de>
Copyright 1997 by Alain Malek
Copyright 1997 Transmeta Corporation - All Rights Reserved
Copyright 1997 M. Kirkwood
Copyright 1997 Linus Torvalds
Copyright 1997 Andi Kleen <ak@muc.de>
Copyright 1997 -- 2000 Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>
Copyright 1996-1999 Thomas Bogendoerfer 1993,1994,1995 by Donald Becker.
Copyright 1996-1999 Thomas Bogendoerfer
Copyright 1996-1997 David J. McKay
Copyright 1996,1997 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright 1996, Paul Mackerras.
Copyright 1996, 1997, 1998 Hans Reiser
Copyright 1996, 1997 Linux International.
Copyright 1996, 1997 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright 1996 by Carsten Paeth <calle@calle.de>
Copyright 1996 The XFree86 Project, Inc.
Copyright 1996 Roman Zippel
Copyright 1996 Erik Stahlman
Copyright 1996 Eddie C. Dost (ecd@skynet.be)
Copyright 1995-97 Simon G. Vogl 1998-99 Hans Berglund
Copyright 1995-2003 Kai Makisara.
Copyright 1995-2002, Russell King
Copyright 1995-2001 Russell King
Copyright 1995-1998 by Leonard N. Zubkoff <lnz@dandelion.com>
Copyright 1995-1996 by Mylex Corporation. All Rights Reserved
Copyright 1995-1996 by Mylex Corporation All Rights Reserved
Copyright 1995, Russell King. Linus Torvalds
Copyright 1995, Russell King
Copyright 1995, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright 1995, 1996, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2003, 2004, 2005 Free Software
Foundation, Inc.
Copyright 1995, 1996, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright 1995 by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright 1995 Roger C. Pao
Copyright 1995 Linus Torvalds
Copyright 1995 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright 1995 (C) David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright 1994-97 Roman Hodek <Roman.Hodek@informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
Copyright 1994-2001 Stephen Rothwell (sfr@canb.auug.org.au)
Copyright 1994-2000 retained by the original author, Donald Becker.1995 by Bill
Carlson, wwc@super.org.
Copyright 1994-2000 by Donald Becker.
Copyright 1994-2000 Paul Mackerras.
Copyright 1994-1998 Paul Mackerras.
Copyright 1994,1995,1996 Kevin Lentin
Copyright 1994,1995 by Donald Becker.
Copyright 1994, Tom Zerucha. tz@execpc.com
Copyright 1994, Linus Torvalds.
Copyright 1994, Drew Eckhardt
Copyright 1994, 1995 Digital Equipment Corporation.
Copyright 1994 by Robert de Vries
Copyright 1994 by Björn Brauel
Copyright 1994 Roman Hodek <Roman.Hodek@informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
Copyright 1994 - 2000, 2002 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright 1993-2004 Jürgen E. Fischer
Copyright 1993-2003 NVIDIA, Corporation. All rights reserved. 
Copyright 1993-2003 NVIDIA, Corporation
Copyright 1993-1999 NVIDIA, Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright 1993-1999 Jürgen Fischer <fischer@norbit.de>
Copyright 1993,2000 by Joerg Reuter DL1BKE <jreuter@yaina.de>
Copyright 1993, Drew Eckhardt Visionary Computing Unix consulting and custom
programming drew@colorado.edu
Copyright 1993, Drew Eckhardt Visionary Computing Unix and Linux consulting and
custom programming drew@colorado.edu
Copyright 1993, Drew Eckhardt Visionary Computing Unix and Linux consulting and
custom programming drew@Colorado.EDU
Copyright 1993, 1994: Eric Youngdale (ericy@cais.com).
Copyright 1993, 1994 Drew Eckhardt Visionary Computing Unix and Linux consulting
and custom programming) drew@Colorado.EDU
Copyright 1993, 1994 Drew Eckhardt Visionary Computing Unix and Linux consulting
and custom programming Drew@Colorado.EDU
Copyright 1993 by Theodore Ts'o.
Copyright 1993 by OpenVision Technologies, Inc.
Copyright 1993 by Hamish Macdonald
Copyright 1993 assigned to the United States Government as represented by the
Director, National Security Agency.
Copyright 1993 United States Government as represented by the Director, National
Security Agency. Written 1993 by Donald Becker.
Copyright 1993 United States Government as represented by the Director, National
Security Agency. Donald Becker becker@scyld.com
Copyright 1993 United States Government as represented by the Director, National
Security Agency. Carsten Langgaard, carstenl@mips.com
Copyright 1993 United States Government as represented by the Director, National
Security Agency.
Copyright 1993 United States Government as represented by the Director, National
Security Agency
Copyright 1993 Harm Hanemaayer
Copyright 1993 Guido ten Dolle PE1NNZ
Copyright 1993 Drew Eckhard
Copyright 1993 -- 1997 Drew Eckhardt, Frederic Potter, David Mosberger-Tang
Copyright 1992--1999 Drew Eckhardt, Frederic Potter, David Mosberger-Tang,
Martin Mares
Copyright 1992, Linus Torvalds.
Copyright 1992 by Greg Harp
Copyright 1992 Hewlett-Packard Co.
Copyright 1992 Dana L. How
Copyright 1992 - 2016 Kai Makisara email Kai.Makisara@kolumbus.fi
Copyright 1991-2012 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright 1991, 1993, 1994, 1996, 1999-2002, 2004, 2012, 2013, 2015 Free
Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright 1991, 1992, 1993, and by Julian Cowley, Copyright 1994.
Copyright 1991, 1992 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright 10/16/2005 Tilman Kranz <tilde@tk-sls.de>
Copyright 02 Jul 2003, Linux Networx (http://lnxi.com)
Copyright (c)2006 - 2007 Myricom, Inc.
Copyright (c), 2005-2008 Siano Mobile Silicon, Inc.
Copyright (c), 2004-2005,2007-2010 Trident Microsystems, Inc. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 漆鹏振 (Qi Pengzhen) <aric.pzqi@ingenic.com>
Copyright (c) 周琰杰 (Zhou Yanjie) <zhouyanjie@wanyeetech.com>
Copyright (c) u-boot contributors
Copyright (c) by Uros Bizjak <uros@kss-loka.si>
Copyright (c) by Tugrul Galatali <galatalt@stuy.edu>, Jaroslav Kysela
<perex@perex.cz> Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) by Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de> Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) by Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) by Scott McNab <sdm@fractalgraphics.com.au>
Copyright (c) by Phil Poole 2013
Copyright (c) by Pavel Hofman <pavel.hofman@ivitera.com>,
Copyright (c) by Pavel Hofman <pavel.hofman@ivitera.com>
Copyright (c) by Paul Barton-Davis <pbd@op.net>
Copyright (c) by Matze Braun <MatzeBraun@gmx.de>. Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) by Levent Guendogdu <levon@feature-it.com>
Copyright (c) by Lee Revell <rlrevell@joe-job.com> Clemens Ladisch
<clemens@ladisch.de>
Copyright (c) by Kai Svahn <kai.svahn@nokia.com>
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@suse.cz>
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>, Thomas Sailer
<sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch>
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>, Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Creative Labs, Inc.
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>, Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>, Isaku Yamahata
<yamahata@private.email.ne.jp>, George Hansper <ghansper@apana.org.au>, Hannu
Savolainen
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>, Hannu Savolainen 1993-1996,
Rob Hooft
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>, Hannu Savolainen 1993-1996
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>, Creative Labs, Inc.
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>, Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>, Abramo Bagnara <abramo@alsa-
project.org>
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>,
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz> Uros Bizjak <uros@kss-loka.si>
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz> Tugrul Galatali
<galatalt@stuy.edu>
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz> Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz> Creative Labs, Inc. Lee Revell
<rlrevell@joe-job.com>
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz> Creative Labs, Inc.
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz> Abramo Bagnara <abramo@alsa-
project.org> Cirrus Logic, Inc.
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz> Abramo Bagnara <abramo@alsa-
project.org>
Copyright (c) by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) by Jaromir Koutek <miri@punknet.cz>, Jaroslav Kysela
<perex@perex.cz>, Thomas Sailer <sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch>, Abramo Bagnara
<abramo@alsa-project.org>, Markus Gruber <gruber@eikon.tum.de>
Copyright (c) by James Courtier-Dutton <James@superbug.demon.co.uk>
Copyright (c) by James Courtier-Dutton <James@superbug.co.uk>
Copyright (c) by George Talusan <gstalusan@uwaterloo.ca>
http://www.undergrad.math.uwaterloo.ca/~gstalusa
Copyright (c) by Francisco Moraes <fmoraes@nc.rr.com>
Copyright (c) by Digital Equipment Corp.
Copyright (c) by David Shust, dshust@shustring.com.
Copyright (c) by Daniel Kaehn <kaehndan@gmail.com Jaroslav Kysela
<perex@perex.cz>, Isaku Yamahata <yamahata@private.email.ne.jp>, George Hansper
<ghansper@apana.org.au>, Hannu Savolainen
Copyright (c) by Christian Fischbach <fishbach@pool.informatik.rwth-aachen.de>
Copyright (c) by Chris Rankin
Copyright (c) by AudioScience Inc <support@audioscience.com>
Copyright (c) by Abramo Bagnara <abramo@alsa-project.org>
Copyright (c) Yann Collet, Facebook, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) Yann Collet, Facebook, Inc.
Copyright (c) Yaegashi Takeshi, 2001
Copyright (c) YAEGASHI Takeshi, 2001
Copyright (c) Vasily Khoruzhick Arnaud Patard
Copyright (c) Vaisala Oyj. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) Trond Myklebust
Copyright (c) Tomasz Duszynski <tduszyns@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) Thiebaud Weksteen, 2015
Copyright (c) Teenage Engineering AB 2016
Copyright (c) Takashi Sakamoto <o-takashi@sakamocchi.jp>
Copyright (c) Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) StreamUnlimited GmbH 2013 Marek Belisko
<marek.belisko@streamunlimited.com>
Copyright (c) Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) Siemens AG, 2022
Copyright (c) Siemens AG, 2021
Copyright (c) Siemens AG, 2020-2021
Copyright (c) Siemens AG, 2018-2021
Copyright (c) Siemens AG, 2015-2017
Copyright (c) Siemens AG, 2013
Copyright (c) Siemens AG, 2012, 2013
Copyright (c) Siemens AG, 2011-2013
Copyright (c) Siemens AG, 2011, 2012
Copyright (c) STMicroelectronics 2019 - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (c) STMicroelectronics 2015
Copyright (c) Russ Anderson <rja@sgi.com>
Copyright (c) Roman Volkov <v1ron@mail.ru>
Copyright (c) Red Hat <mjg@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) Realtek Semiconductor Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) Realtek Semiconductor Corp.
Copyright (c) Randolph Chung 2001 <tausq@debian.org>
Copyright (c) Przemyslaw Skibinski, Yann Collet, Facebook, Inc. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) Phil Blundell <pb@nexus.co.uk>, 1998
Copyright (c) Paul Mundt 2001
Copyright (c) Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (c) Nokia Corporation, 2007 Authors: Artem Bityutskiy, Frank Haverkamp
Copyright (c) Nokia Corporation, 2007
Copyright (c) Nokia Corporation, 2006, 2007
Copyright (c) Nokia Corporation, 2006
Copyright (c) NXP 2019
Copyright (c) Motorola 1999,2000,2001
Copyright (c) MontaVista Software, Inc. 2008. Anton Vorontsov
<avorontsov@ru.mvista.com>
Copyright (c) MontaVista Software, Inc. 2008.
Copyright (c) Mike Travis
Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation
Copyright (c) Meta Platforms, Inc. and affiliates.
Copyright (c) Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) Matthew Wilcox 2001 for Hewlett-Packard
Copyright (c) Matthew Wilcox 1999 <willy@infradead.org>
Copyright (c) Mathias Krause <minipli@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) Marc A. Viredaz, 1998 DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto,
CA Date January 1998 (April 1997)
Copyright (c) Marc A. Viredaz, 1998 DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto,
CA Date April 1998 (April 1997)
Copyright (c) Logic Product Development, Inc. 2007 Peter Barada
<peterb@logicpd.com>
Copyright (c) Linumiz 2021
Copyright (c) Lee Revell <rlrevell@joe-job.com>
Copyright (c) La Monte H.P. Yarroll 2001
Copyright (c) Kyle McMartin <kyle@debian.org>
Copyright (c) Jürgen Schindele 2006
Copyright (c) Justin Ernst
Copyright (c) Jeffrey Layton <jlayton@redhat.com>, 2013
Copyright (c) Jean-Luc Cooke <jlcooke@certainkey.com>
Copyright (c) Jean-Francois Dive <jef@linuxbe.org>
Copyright (c) Jean Thomas <virgule@jeanthomas.me>
Copyright (c) Jay Lan, SGI. 2006
Copyright (c) Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2009,2011 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2009, 2013 Etersoft, 2012
Author(s): Steve French (sfrench@us.ibm.com) Pavel Shilovsky
(pshilovsky@samba.org) 2012
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2008 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com) Wang Lei (wang840925@gmail.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2008 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2007 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com) Modified by Namjae Jeon (linkinjeon@kernel.org)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2007 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2006, 2009 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2006
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2004 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2003, 2007 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2002,2013 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2002,2009 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2002,2008 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2002,2007 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2002,2004 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2002, 2011 Etersoft, 2012
Author(s): Steve French (sfrench@us.ibm.com) Pavel Shilovsky
(pshilovsky@samba.org) 2012
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2002, 2007 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2000,2009 Steve French
(sfrench@us.ibm.com) Namjae Jeon (linkinjeon@kernel.org)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2000,2009 Steve French
(sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2000,2009
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2000,2002 Steve French
(sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) International Business Machines Corp., 2000,2002
Copyright (c) Intel Corp. 2007. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) Ian Molton 2004, 2005, 2008
Copyright (c) IBM Corporation, 1998-2004.
Copyright (c) IBM Corporation 2009 Author: Mel Gorman <mel@csn.ul.ie>
Copyright (c) Herbert Valerio Riedel <hvr@hvrlab.org>
Copyright (c) Henry Wang <Henry.wang@AzureWave.com>
Copyright (c) Harald Koerfgen, 1998
Copyright (c) Harald Geyer <harald@ccbib.org>
Copyright (c) Freescale Semicondutor, Inc. 2006. Shlomi Gridish
<gridish@freescale.com> Jerry Huang <Chang-Ming.Huang@freescale.com>
Copyright (c) Freescale Semicondutor, Inc. 2006, 2011. Shlomi Gridish
<gridish@freescale.com> Jerry Huang <Chang-Ming.Huang@freescale.com>
Copyright (c) Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. 2006. Shlomi Gridish
<gridish@freescale.com> Jerry Huang <Chang-Ming.Huang@freescale.com>
Copyright (c) Freescale Semiconductor
Copyright (c) Facebook, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) Evgeniy Polyakov <zbr@ioremap.net> All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) Evgeniy Polyakov <johnpol@2ka.mipt.ru> All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) Dmitry Torokhov <dtor@mail.ru>
Copyright (c) Dmitry Baryshkov 2008
Copyright (c) Dirk Opfer 2005.
Copyright (c) Dimitri Sivanich
Copyright (c) David L. Mills 1993
Copyright (c) Cryptoapi developers.
Copyright (c) Copyright 2014 Cisco Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) Copyright 2005-2006 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Alex
Williamson <alex.williamson@hp.com>
Copyright (c) Clemens Ladisch <clemens@ladisch.de>
Copyright (c) Clemens Ladisch
Copyright (c) Cisco 1999,2000
Copyright (c) Christian Hewitt <christianshewitt@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) Chris Humbert 2005
Copyright (c) Chandramouli Narayanan <mouli@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) Broadcom Corp, 2012
Copyright (c) BayLibre, SAS. Author : Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) Arnaud Patard <arnaud.patard@rtp-net.org>
Copyright (c) Andrew Tridgell 1997-1998. Steve French (sfrench@us.ibm.com) 2002
Copyright (c) Andrew McDonald <andrew@mcdonald.org.uk>
Copyright (c) Andi Shyti <andi@etezian.org>
Copyright (c) Amarula Solutions B.V. 2013
Copyright (c) Alan Smithee.
Copyright (c) Ahmet İnan <ainan at mathematik.uni-freiburg.de>
Copyright (c) Adrian McMenamin, 2008 - 2009
Copyright (c) Adrian McMenamin, 2007 - 2009
Copyright (c) Adrian McMenamin 2002 - 2009
Copyright (c) ARM Limited 2003. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) ???? Jochen Schäuble <psionic@psionic.de>
Copyright (c) 2023 Collabora, Ltd. AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
<angelogioacchino.delregno@collabora.com>
Copyright (c) 2022. Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, Xilin Wu <strongtz@yeah.net>
Copyright (c) 2022, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, SberDevices. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, SUSE.
Copyright (c) 2022, Ronnie Sahlberg <lsahlber@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2022, Oracle and/or its affiliates
Copyright (c) 2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved. 
Copyright (c) 2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES.
Copyright (c) 2022, Molly Sophia <mollysophia379@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022, Luca Weiss <luca@z3ntu.xyz>
Copyright (c) 2022, Luca Weiss <luca.weiss@fairphone.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2022, Linaro Ltd
Copyright (c) 2022, Linaro Limited. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2022, Konrad Dybcio <konrad.dybcio@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2022, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2022, Huawei
Copyright (c) 2022, Google LLC
Copyright (c) 2022, Dylan Van Assche <me@dylanvanassche.be>
Copyright (c) 2022, Dominik Kobinski <dominikkobinski314@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Caleb Connolly <caleb@connolly.tech>
Copyright (c) 2022, BayLibre Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022, Arm Limited. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022, Ampere Computing LLC
Copyright (c) 2022, Alibaba Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022, Alexander Martinz <amartinz@shiftphones.com>
Copyright (c) 2022, Alec Su <ae40515@yahoo.com.tw>
Copyright (c) 2022, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022, AMD. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 周琰杰 (Zhou Yanjie) <zhouyanjie@wanyeetech.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 by Christian Colglazier <christian@cacolglazier.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022 Vyacheslav Bocharov <adeep@lexina.in>
Copyright (c) 2022 Ventana Micro Systems Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022 Tianjia Zhang <tianjia.zhang@linux.alibaba.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 The Chromium OS Authors. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 Takahiro Fujii <fujii@xaxxi.net>
Copyright (c) 2022 Taehee Yoo <ap420073@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 SeongJae Park <sj@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2022 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Chanho Park
<chanho61.park@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2022 Richtek Technology Corp.
Copyright (c) 2022 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (c) 2022 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022 Radxa Limited
Copyright (c) 2022 Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2022 Pengutronix, Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2022 Pengutronix, Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2022 Nuvoton Technology Corporation
Copyright (c) 2022 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2022 NVIDIA Corporation and Mellanox Technologies. All rights
reserved
Copyright (c) 2022 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES.
Copyright (c) 2022 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Copyright (c) 2022 Microchip Technology Inc
Copyright (c) 2022 Michael Walle <michael@walle.cc>
Copyright (c) 2022 Meta Platforms, Inc. and affiliates. 
Copyright (c) 2022 Meta Platforms, Inc. and affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2022 Meta
Copyright (c) 2022 Mediatek Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yunfei Dong <yunfei.dong@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Wu <yong.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Trevor Wu <trevor.wu@mediatek.com> YC
Hung <yc.hung@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Trevor Wu <trevor.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sam Shih <sam.shih@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Runyang Chen
<runyang.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ping-Hsun Wu <ping-
hsun.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Jiaxin Yu <jiaxin.yu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Jianjun Wang
<jianjun.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Holmes Chiou
<holmes.chiou@mediatek.com> Ping-Hsun Wu <ping-hsun.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chunxu Li <chunxu.li@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chun-Jie Chen <chun-
jie.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Corporation. All rights reserved. Author: Allen-KH
Cheng <allen-kh.cheng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 MediaTek Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 Maíra Canal <mairacanal@riseup.net>
Copyright (c) 2022 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 Linaro. All rights reserved. Author: Caleb Connolly
<caleb.connolly@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2022 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2022 Linaro Ltd Author: Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2022 Linaro Limited. Author: Caleb Connolly
<caleb.connolly@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2022 José Expósito <jose.exposito89@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Joel Selvaraj <jo@jsfamily.in>
Copyright (c) 2022 JetHome Author: Vyacheslav Bocharov <adeep@lexina.in> Author:
Aleksandr Kazantsev <ak@tvip.ru> Author: Alexey Shevelkin <ash@tvip.ru>
Copyright (c) 2022 JetHome Author: Vyacheslav Bocharov <adeep@lexina.in>
Copyright (c) 2022 Jagath Jog J
Copyright (c) 2022 International Business Machines, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022 Intel Corporation. Len Brown <len.brown@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2022 Infineon Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 Huawei Inc, Yang Jihong <yangjihong1@huawei.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd. Author: Yicong Yang
<yangyicong@hisilicon.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2022 Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 Henrik Grimler
Copyright (c) 2022 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2022 Harry Stern <harry@harrystern.net>
Copyright (c) 2022 Guenter Roeck
Copyright (c) 2022 Google LLC.
Copyright (c) 2022 Google
Copyright (c) 2022 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2022 Fujitsu. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2022 Fujitsu Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2022 Felix Fietkau <nbd@nbd.name>
Copyright (c) 2022 Facebook
Copyright (c) 2022 Davicom Semiconductor,Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022 Collabora Ltd. Author: AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
<angelogioacchino.delregno@collabora.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Code Construct
Copyright (c) 2022 Chuanhong Guo <gch981213@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Bytedance
Copyright (c) 2022 BayLibre, SAS Author: Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 BayLibre, SAS
Copyright (c) 2022 BayLibre
Copyright (c) 2022 Arthur Grillo <arthur.grillo@usp.br>
Copyright (c) 2022 AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
<angelogioacchino.delregno@collabora.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Amarulasolutions
Copyright (c) 2022 Amarula Solutions, Dario Binacchi
<dario.binacchi@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 Amarula Solutions(India)
Copyright (c) 2022 Alexey Dobriyan <adobriyan@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2022 9elements GmbH
Copyright (c) 2022 1&1 IONOS SE. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021-2023, Petr Vorel <petr.vorel@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021-2023 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021-2022, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021-2022, Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021-2022, Petr Vorel <petr.vorel@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021-2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2021-2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021-2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2021-2022, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2021-2022 Samuel Holland <samuel@sholland.org>
Copyright (c) 2021-2022 Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021-2022 NXP.
Copyright (c) 2021-2022 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (c) 2021-2022 Microchip Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021-2022 Jonathan Neuschäfer
Copyright (c) 2021-2021 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2021-2 Arm Limited
Copyright (c) 2021, Western Digital Corporation
Copyright (c) 2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021, Stephan Gerhold <stephan@gerhold.net>
Copyright (c) 2021, Sergey Ryazanov <ryazanov.s.a@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, SberDevices. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021, Red Hat.
Copyright (c) 2021, Red Hat Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021, Raffaele Tranquillini <raffaele.tranquillini@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2021, NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2021, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved. 
Copyright (c) 2021, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2021, NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES.
Copyright (c) 2021, Microsoft Corporation. Pasha Tatashin
<pasha.tatashin@soleen.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2021, Michael Zaidman <michaelz@xsightlabs.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, Michael Srba
Copyright (c) 2021, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021, MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021, Maxim Integrated.
Copyright (c) 2021, Maxim Integrated
Copyright (c) 2021, Martin Botka <martin.botka@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2021, Marcel Ziswiler <marcel@ziswiler.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, Luca Weiss <luca@z3ntu.xyz>
Copyright (c) 2021, Linaro Ltd. Author: Manivannan Sadhasivam
<manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2021, Linaro Ltd. Author: Manivannan Sadhasivam
<manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org
Copyright (c) 2021, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021, Linaro Ltd <loic.poulain@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2021, Linaro Limited. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2021, Konrad Dybcio <konrad.dybcio@somainline.org> Marijn Suijten
<marijn.suijten@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2021, Konrad Dybcio <konrad.dybcio@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2021, Juergen Gross <jgross@suse.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, Jami Kettunen <jamipkettunen@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2021, IBM Corp.
Copyright (c) 2021, HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021, Google LLC. Pasha Tatashin <pasha.tatashin@soleen.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, Google LLC.
Copyright (c) 2021, Dang Huynh <danct12@riseup.net>
Copyright (c) 2021, Collabora
Copyright (c) 2021, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
angelogioacchino.delregno@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2021, Alibaba Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Wu Zongyong
<wuzongyong@linux.alibaba.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, Alibaba Group.
Copyright (c) 2021, ASPEED Technology Inc. Authors: KuoHsiang Chou
<kuohsiang_chou@aspeedtech.com>
Copyright (c) 2021, 2022 Pengutronix, Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2021 周琰杰 (Zhou Yanjie) <zhouyanjie@wanyeetech.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 thingy.jp. Author: Daniel Palmer <daniel@thingy.jp> Author:
Romain Perier <romain.perier@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 thingy.jp. Author: Daniel Palmer <daniel@thingy.jp>
Copyright (c) 2021 pureLiFi
Copyright (c) 2021 emtrion GmbH Author: Reinhold Müller
<reinhold.mueller@emtrion.de>.
Copyright (c) 2021 emtrion GmbH Author: Frank Erdrich
<frank.erdrich@emtrion.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 by Rivos Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 2021 Yassine Oudjana <y.oudjana@protonmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2021 Václav Kubernát, CESNET
Copyright (c) 2021 Vyacheslav Bocharov <adeep@lexina.in>
Copyright (c) 2021 Vincent Mailhol <mailhol.vincent@wanadoo.fr>
Copyright (c) 2021 Vincent Knecht <vincent.knecht@mailoo.org>
Copyright (c) 2021 Vaisala Oyj. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 Toshiba Electronic Devices & Storage Corporation
Copyright (c) 2021 Tomasz Duszynski <tomasz.duszynski@octakon.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Tianling Shen <cnsztl@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Tianjia Zhang <tianjia.zhang@linux.alibaba.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 Takashi Sakamoto <o-takashi@sakamocchi.jp>
Copyright (c) 2021 Takashi Sakamoto
Copyright (c) 2021 Taehee Yoo <ap420073@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 TOSHIBA CORPORATION
Copyright (c) 2021 T-Chip Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2021 Sunplus Inc. Author: Li-hao Kuo <lhjeff911@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Sergio Paracuellos Author: Sergio Paracuellos
<sergio.paracuellos@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Samuel Holland <samuel@sholland.org>
Copyright (c) 2021 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021 SUSE LLC
Copyright (c) 2021 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Elaine Zhang
<zhangqing@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021 Richtek Technology Corp.
Copyright (c) 2021 Renesas Electronics Europe GmbH
Copyright (c) 2021 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 Red Hat GmbH
Copyright (c) 2021 Raffaele Tranquillini <raffaele.tranquillini@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Qualcomm Innovation Center, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 Purism SPC
Copyright (c) 2021 Puranjay Mohan <puranjay12@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Protonic Holland
Copyright (c) 2021 Pengutronix, Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2021 Pengutronix, Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates. Author: Chris Hyser
<chris.hyser@oracle.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2021 Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2021 Nuvoton Technology tomer.maimon@nuvoton.com
Copyright (c) 2021 Nikita Travkin <nikita@trvn.ru>
Copyright (c) 2021 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES.
Copyright (c) 2021 Minchan Kim <minchan@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2021 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2021 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Copyright (c) 2021 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 Microchip Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 Microchip
Copyright (c) 2021 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2021 Mellanox Technologies. 
Copyright (c) 2021 Mellanox Technologies.
Copyright (c) 2021 Mellanox Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 Mellanox Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021 Mellanox Technologies Ltd
Copyright (c) 2021 Mediatek Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yunfei Dong <yunfei.dong@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Trevor Wu <trevor.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Seiya Wang <seiya.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sam Shih <sam.shih@mediatek.com>
Author: Wenzhen Yu <wenzhen.yu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sam Shih <sam.shih@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Jason-JH Lin
<jason0jh.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: George Sun <george.sun@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chun-Jie Chen <chun-
jie.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Christine Zhu
<christine.zhu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Bicycle Tsai
<bicycle.tsai@mediatek.com> Trevor Wu <trevor.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 MediaTek Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 Maya Matuszczyk <maccraft123mc@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Maxim Kutnij <gtk3@inbox.ru>
Copyright (c) 2021 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2021 Marvell
Copyright (c) 2021 Lucas Stankus <lucas.p.stankus@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Linaro Ltd. Author: Sam Protsenko
<semen.protsenko@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2021 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021 Liam Beguin <liambeguin@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Lauri Kasanen
Copyright (c) 2021 Kuninori Morimoto <kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Keith Packard <keithp@keithp.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Kamil Trzciński <ayufan@ayufan.eu>
Copyright (c) 2021 Johan Hovold <johan@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2021 Jernej Skrabec <jernej.skrabec@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Jelle van der Waa <jvanderwaa@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Isovalent, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2021 Inspur Corporation
Copyright (c) 2021 Innovative Advantage Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 Innovative Advantage
Copyright (c) 2021 Ilya Skriblovsky
Copyright (c) 2021 IBM Corporation
Copyright (c) 2021 IBM Corp.
Copyright (c) 2021 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2021 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd. Author: Jay Fang
<f.fangjian@huawei.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021 HiSilicon
Copyright (c) 2021 Hengqi Chen
Copyright (c) 2021 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Hannes Reinecke, SUSE Software Solutions
Copyright (c) 2021 Google, LLC <ardb@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2021 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2021 Google LLC.
Copyright (c) 2021 Google
Copyright (c) 2021 Flextronics International Sweden AB.
Copyright (c) 2021 Flextronics International Sweden AB
Copyright (c) 2021 Facebook Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 Facebook 
Copyright (c) 2021 Facebook
Copyright (c) 2021 Eric Dumazet <edumazet@google.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Dávid Virág
Copyright (c) 2021 Dillon Min Dillon Min, <dillon.minfei@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Desmond Lim
Copyright (c) 2021 Dell Inc. or its subsidiaries. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 Daniel Nguyen <daniel.nguyen.1@ens.etsmtl.ca>
Copyright (c) 2021 Dan Scally <djrscally@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Cristian Ciocaltea <cristian.ciocaltea@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Cornelis Networks. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 Cong Wang <cong.wang@bytedance.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Collabora, Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2021 Code Construct
Copyright (c) 2021 Broadcom Limited
Copyright (c) 2021 Broadcom Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 Benjamin Moody
Copyright (c) 2021 Beau Belgrave <beaub@linux.microsoft.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 BayLibre SAS Author: Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Bastien Nocera <hadess@hadess.net>
Copyright (c) 2021 Aspeed Tehchnology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 Aspeed Technology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 Anyfi Networks AB. Author: Johan Almbladh
<johan.almbladh@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
angelogioacchino.delregno@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2021 Amlogic, Inc. Author: Shunzhou Jiang
<shunzhou.jiang@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Zelong Dong
<zelong.dong@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Qianggui Song
<qianggui.song@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2021 Allied Telesis
Copyright (c) 2021 Alexey Dobriyan <adobriyan@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2021 Aleksandr Mezin
Copyright (c) 2020-2022, Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020-2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020-2022, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2020-2022, Alibaba Group.
Copyright (c) 2020-2022 Microchip Technology Inc
Copyright (c) 2020-2022 Microchip Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021, Red Hat Inc All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2020-2021, Alibaba Group
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 by Vladimir Sadovnikov <sadko4u@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Pascal Giard <pascal.giard@etsmtl.ca>
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Microchip Technology Inc
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Microchip Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Kim Kuparinen <kimi.h.kuparinen@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 Dario Pagani <dario.pagani.146+linuxk@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Yassine Oudjana <y.oudjana@protonmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Xiphos Systems Corp.
Copyright (c) 2020, Xilin Wu <strongtz@yeah.net>
Copyright (c) 2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved. Author: Siddartha
Mohanadoss <smohanad@codeaurora.org
Copyright (c) 2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020, Tessares SA.
Copyright (c) 2020, Stephen Kitt
Copyright (c) 2020, Stephan Gerhold <stephan@gerhold.net>
Copyright (c) 2020, Silicon Laboratories, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020, Rishi Gupta <gupt21@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Red Hat. All rights reserved. Author: Jason Wang
<jasowang@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020, Red Hat Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Jason Wang
<jasowang@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Red Hat Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020, Red Hat Inc All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020, Oracle and/or its affiliates. Author: Alan Maguire
<alan.maguire@oracle.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2020, Oracle and/or its affiliates
Copyright (c) 2020, Nikolay Aleksandrov <nikolay@nvidia.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Nikolay Aleksandrov <nikolay@cumulusnetworks.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2020, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved. 
Copyright (c) 2020, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020, Mellanox Technologies
Copyright (c) 2020, Maxim Integrated.
Copyright (c) 2020, Maxim Integrated
Copyright (c) 2020, Martin Botka <martin.botka@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2020, Martin Botka <martin.botka1@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Martin Botka
Copyright (c) 2020, MIPI Alliance, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020, Loongson Corporation
Copyright (c) 2020, Linaro Ltd. Author: Jun Nie <jun.nie@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2020, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020, Linaro Limited Author: Manivannan Sadhasivam
<manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2020, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2020, Kun Yi <kunyi@google.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Konrad Dybcio <konradybcio@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Konrad Dybcio <konrad.dybcio@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2020, Konrad Dybcio
Copyright (c) 2020, Intel Corporation. Author: Jin Yao
Copyright (c) 2020, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020, Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2020, Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2020, Gustave Monce <gustave.monce@outlook.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Google LLC. All rights reserved. Author: Saravana Kannan
<saravanak@google.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020, David Heidelberg, Michał Mirosław, Dmitry Osipenko
Copyright (c) 2020, Bytedance.
Copyright (c) 2020, ByteDance. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020, Broadcom
Copyright (c) 2020, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
angelogioacchino.delregno@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2020, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno <kholk11@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
<angelogioacchino.delregno@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2020, Alibaba Group. Written by Tianjia Zhang
<tianjia.zhang@linux.alibaba.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Alibaba Group. Authors: Tianjia Zhang
<tianjia.zhang@linux.alibaba.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Alexey Minnekhanov <alexey.min@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020, ASPEED Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2020, 2021 Vincent Mailhol <mailhol.vincent@wanadoo.fr>
Copyright (c) 2020, 2021 Pengutronix, Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2020 周琰杰 (Zhou Yanjie) <zhouyanjie@wanyeetech.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 wuyan@allwinnertech.com
Copyright (c) 2020 thingy.jp. Author: Daniel Palmer <daniel@thingy.jp>
Copyright (c) 2020 thingy.jp Author: Daniel Palmer <daniel@thingy.jp>
Copyright (c) 2020 huangzhenwei@allwinnertech.com
Copyright (c) 2020 frank@allwinnertech.com
Copyright (c) 2020 Yangtao Li <frank@allwinnertech.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 YOSHIOKA Takuma <lo48576@hard-wi.red>
Copyright (c) 2020 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 Xi Wang <xi.wang@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2020 Volkswagen Group Electronic Research All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Toshiba Electronic Devices & Storage Corporation
Copyright (c) 2020 Tomasz Duszynski <tomasz.duszynski@octakon.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Tobias Schramm <t.schramm@manjaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Timesys Corporation Author: Angelo Dureghello
<angelo.dureghello@timesys.it>
Copyright (c) 2020 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
Copyright (c) 2020 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Tessares SA <http://www.tessares.net>
Copyright (c) 2020 TOSHIBA CORPORATION
Copyright (c) 2020 Synopsys, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2020 Super Micro Computer, Inc
Copyright (c) 2020 Stephen Kitt
Copyright (c) 2020 Stenkin Evgeniy <stenkinevgeniy@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 Sony Interactive Entertainment
Copyright (c) 2020 Silex Insight
Copyright (c) 2020 SiFive, Inc
Copyright (c) 2020 Shuah Khan <skhan@linuxfoundation.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Sartura Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020 Sanjay Govind <sanjay.govind9@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Samuel Čavoj <sammko@sammserver.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Samuel Cabrero <scabrero@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2020 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/ Author:
Marek Szyprowski <m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020 Samsung Electronics
Copyright (c) 2020 SUSE LLC.
Copyright (c) 2020 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Andy Yan
<andy.yan@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Renesas Electronics Europe GmbH
Copyright (c) 2020 Renesas Electronics America
Copyright (c) 2020 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 Red Hat Author: Lenny Szubowicz <lszubowi@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Red Hat
Copyright (c) 2020 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Quanta Computer Inc. George.Hung@quantatw.com
Copyright (c) 2020 Protonic Holland
Copyright (c) 2020 Pengutronix, Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2020 Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates. Author: Daniel Jordan
<daniel.m.jordan@oracle.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2020 Oracle Author: Matthew Wilcox <willy@infradead.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2020 Nuvoton Technology
Copyright (c) 2020 NovaTech LLC
Copyright (c) 2020 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu <nobuhiro1.iwamatsu@toshiba.co.jp>
Copyright (c) 2020 Nicolas Saenz Julienne Author: Nicolas Saenz Julienne
<nsaenzjulienne@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2020 Nicolas Saenz Julienne Author: Nicolas Saenz Julienne
<nsaenzjulienne@suse.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 NXP.
Copyright (c) 2020 NXP
Copyright (c) 2020 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (c) 2020 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2020 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries.
Copyright (c) 2020 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (c) 2020 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 Microchip Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Michael Walle <michael@walle.cc>
Copyright (c) 2020 Michael Jeanson <mjeanson@efficios.com>. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2020 Mellanox Technologies.
Copyright (c) 2020 Mellanox Technologies inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 Mellanox Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Mellanox Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020 Mellanox Technologies Ltd
Copyright (c) 2020 Mellanox Technologies Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Mellanox Technologies
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yongqiang Niu
<yongqiang.niu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Wu <yong.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Liang <yong.liang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Weiyi Lu <weiyi.lu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Shane Chien <shane.chien@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Min.Guo <min.guo@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: KaiChieh Chuang
<kaichieh.chuang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Jiaxin Yu <jiaxin.yu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Jianjun Wang
<jianjun.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Bicycle Tsai
<bicycle.tsai@mediatek.com> Trevor Wu <trevor.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author Mark-PK Tsai <mark-pk.tsai@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek Corporation
Copyright (c) 2020 MediaTek
Copyright (c) 2020 Maxim Integrated
Copyright (c) 2020 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2020 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020 Marty Jones <mj8263788@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Martijn Braam <martijn@brixit.nl>
Copyright (c) 2020 Mario Limonciello <mario.limonciello@dell.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Manivannan Sadhasivam <mani@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Luke Nelson <luke.r.nels@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Linaro Ltd. Author: Srinivas Kandagatla
<srinivas.kandagatla@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020 Linaro Limited, All rights reserved. Author: Mike Leach
<mike.leach@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2020 Laura Garcia Liebana <nevola@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright (c) 2020 Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org> Author: Sylwester
Nawrocki <s.nawrocki@samsung.com> Author: Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Jose M. Guisado <guigom@riseup.net>
Copyright (c) 2020 Joerg Roedel (jroedel@suse.de)
Copyright (c) 2020 JetHome Author: Aleksandr Kazantsev <ak@tvip.ru> Author:
Alexey Shevelkin <ash@tvip.ru> Author: Vyacheslav Bocharov <adeep@lexina.in>
Copyright (c) 2020 Jesper Dangaard Brouer
Copyright (c) 2020 Jensen Huang <jensenhuang@friendlyarm.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Jan (janneke) Nieuwenhuizen <janneke@gnu.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Isovalent, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2020 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2020 Hewlett Packard Enterprise. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Hannes Reinecke, SUSE Software Solutions. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Hannes Reinecke, SUSE Linux
Copyright (c) 2020 Hannes Reinecke, SUSE
Copyright (c) 2020 H. Nikolaus Schaller <hns@goldelico.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Guenter Roeck <linux@roeck-us.net>
Copyright (c) 2020 Google, Inc. Author: Andrey Konovalov <andreyknvl@google.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Google, Inc. Author: Andrey Konovalov <andreyknvl@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Google, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 Google LLC.
Copyright (c) 2020 Google
Copyright (c) 2020 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2020 FriendlyElec Computer Tech. Co., Ltd.
http://www.friendlyarm.com)
Copyright (c) 2020 Francis Laniel <laniel_francis@privacyrequired.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Fii USA Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 Facebook Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 Facebook 
Copyright (c) 2020 Facebook
Copyright (c) 2020 Engicam srl
Copyright (c) 2020 ETAS K.K.. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 Dongjin Kim <tobetter@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Dialog Semiconductor. Author: Roy Im
<Roy.Im.Opensource@diasemi.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Dell Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020 David Bauer <mail@david-bauer.net>
Copyright (c) 2020 Daniel Golle <daniel@makrotopia.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Cristian Ciocaltea <cristian.ciocaltea@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020 Cloudflare Ltd https://cloudflare.com
Copyright (c) 2020 Cloudflare
Copyright (c) 2020 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (c) 2020 Christian Hewitt <christianshewitt@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Christian Hewitt
Copyright (c) 2020 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Changbin Du <changbin.du@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Carlos Neira cneirabustos@gmail.com
Copyright (c) 2020 Cambridge Greys Ltd
Copyright (c) 2020 Caleb Connolly <caleb@connolly.tech>
Copyright (c) 2020 Broadcom Limited
Copyright (c) 2020 Broadcom Corporation Author: Kevin-Ke Li <kevin-
ke.li@broadcom.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Bootlin SA Author: Alexandre Belloni
<alexandre.belloni@bootlin.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 Bernd Edlinger <bernd.edlinger@hotmail.de> All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre, SAS. Author: James Liao <jamesjj.liao@mediatek.com>
Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre, SAS Author: James Liao <jamesjj.liao@mediatek.com>
Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre, SAS Author: Honghui Zhang
<honghui.zhang@mediatek.com> Author: Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre SAS Author: Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 BayLibre SAS
Copyright (c) 2020 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2020 Arm Ltd
Copyright (c) 2020 Anna Schumaker <Anna.Schumaker@Netapp.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
angelogioacchino.delregno@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2020 Andy Lutomirski
Copyright (c) 2020 Amarula Solutions(India)
Copyright (c) 2020 Amarula Solutions
Copyright (c) 2020 Advantech Author: Yuechao Zhao
<yuechao.zhao@advantech.com.cn>
Copyright (c) 2020 Aditya Prayoga <aditya@kobol.io>
Copyright (c) 2020 AVL DiTEST GmbH Tomislav Denis <tomislav.denis@avl.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 ARRI Lighting
Copyright (c) 2020 AMD Inc. Author: Supreeth Venkatesh
<supreeth.venkatesh@amd.com>
Copyright (c) 2020 - 2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2020 - 2021 Toshiba Electronic Devices & Storage Corporation
Copyright (c) 2020 - 2021 TOSHIBA CORPORATION
Copyright (c) 2019-2022 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (c) 2019-2022 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019-2022 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2019-2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2021, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2021, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2019-2021 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2021 NXP
Copyright (c) 2019-2021 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2021 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2019-2021 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019-2021 Daniel J. Ogorchock <djogorchock@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019-2020. Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, NXP Author: Alexandre Bailon <abailon@baylibre.com>
Author: Leonard Crestez <leonard.crestez@nxp.com>
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, NXP Author: Alexandre Bailon <abailon@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, NXP
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, Mellanox Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, Huawei Tech. Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, Eideticom Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, Arm Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Red Hat GmbH
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Oracle Author: Matthew Wilcox <willy@infradead.org>
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 NXP
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Matheus Castello
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2019-2020 Artur Rojek <contact@artur-rojek.eu>
Copyright (c) 2019, Vladimir Oltean <olteanv@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019, The Linaro Limited. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019, Tessares SA.
Copyright (c) 2019, Samsung Electronics Author: Lukasz Luba
<l.luba@partner.samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2019, Rishi Gupta <gupt21@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019, Netronome Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019, Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2019, Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019, Mellanox Technologies LTD.
Copyright (c) 2019, Mellanox Technologies
Copyright (c) 2019, Martin Kelly.
Copyright (c) 2019, Logan Gunthorpe <logang@deltatee.com>
Copyright (c) 2019, Linaro Ltd. Author: Georgi Djakov <georgi.djakov@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2019, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019, Linaro Ltd
Copyright (c) 2019, Linaro Limited, All rights reserved. Author: Mike Leach
<mike.leach@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2019, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2019, Jeffrey Hugo. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019, Jeffrey Hugo
Copyright (c) 2019, Intel Corporation. Author: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2019, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019, Intel Corporation. 
Copyright (c) 2019, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2019, Huaqin Telecom Technology Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2019, Guenter Roeck
Copyright (c) 2019, Google Inc. Author - Rajat Jain
Copyright (c) 2019, GigaIO Networks, Inc
Copyright (c) 2019, Ericsson AB All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019, Cadence Design Systems Author: Tom Joseph
<tjoseph@cadence.com>
Copyright (c) 2019, BayLibre
Copyright (c) 2019, 2022, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019, 2020, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019, 2020, 2021 Pengutronix, Marc Kleine-Budde
<kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2019, 2020 周琰杰 (Zhou Yanjie) <zhouyanjie@wanyeetech.com>
Copyright (c) 2019, 2020 Cloudflare
Copyright (c) 2019 漆鹏振 (Qi Pengzhen) <aric.pzqi@ingenic.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 周琰杰 (Zhou Yanjie) <zhouyanjie@wanyeetech.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 thingy.jp. Author: Daniel Palmer <daniel@thingy.jp>
Copyright (c) 2019 five technologies GmbH Author: Markus Reichl
<m.reichl@fivetechno.de>
Copyright (c) 2019 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab+samsung@kernel.org>.
Copyright (c) 2019 Zhou Yanjie <zhouyanjie@zoho.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2019 Volkswagen Group Electronic Research All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019 Vivien Didelot <vivien.didelot@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Vitaly Chikunov <vt@altlinux.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Vamrs Limited
Copyright (c) 2019 Tomasz Figa <tomasz.figa@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Three-Speed Logic, Inc. <gsmecher@threespeedlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
Copyright (c) 2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019 Takashi Sakamoto
Copyright (c) 2019 Synopsys, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2019 Sven Schnelle <svens@stackframe.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright (c) 2019 Shuah Khan <shuah@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Shenzhen Wesion Technology Co., Ltd. https://www.khadas.com)
Copyright (c) 2019 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/ Author:
Sylwester Nawrocki <s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2019 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Lukasz Luba
<l.luba@partner.samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 SED Systems, a division of Calian Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Finley Xiao
<finley.xiao@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Robert Marko <robert.marko@sartura.hr>
Copyright (c) 2019 Robert Eshleman <bobbyeshleman@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Robert Bosch Engineering and Business Solutions. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019 Red Hat GmbH
Copyright (c) 2019 Red Hat
Copyright (c) 2019 Realtek Semiconductor Corp.
Copyright (c) 2019 Radxa Limited
Copyright (c) 2019 Quantenna Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019 Quanta Computer lnc. Fran.Hsu@quantatw.com
Copyright (c) 2019 Quanta Computer Inc. Samuel.Jiang@quantatw.com
Copyright (c) 2019 Quanta Computer Inc. <Samuel.Jiang@quantatw.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Protonic Holland
Copyright (c) 2019 Pragnesh Patel <Pragnesh_Patel@mentor.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Pensando Systems, Inc
Copyright (c) 2019 Pengutronix, Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2019 Paulo Alcantara <palcantara@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2019 Paul Pawlowski <paul@mrarm.io>
Copyright (c) 2019 Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (c) 2019 Oracle. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019 Nuvoton Technology corporation.
Copyright (c) 2019 Nuvoton Technology <kwliu@nuvoton.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Nokia, Inc. Authors: Martin Varghese,
<martin.varghese@nokia.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Netronome Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019 NXP
Copyright (c) 2019 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2019 Mohammad Rasim <mohammad.rasim96@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2019 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (c) 2019 Microchip Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2019 Mellanox Technologies. 
Copyright (c) 2019 Mellanox Technologies.
Copyright (c) 2019 Mellanox Technologies
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: jitao.shi <jitao.shi@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Liang <yong.liang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Xia Jiang <xia.jiang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Wendell Lin <wendell.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ran Bi <ran.bi@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Min.Guo <min.guo@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Mars.C <mars.cheng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Long Cheng <long.cheng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: KaiChieh Chuang
<kaichieh.chuang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Jitao Shi <jitao.shi@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: James Liao <jamesjj.liao@mediatek.com>
Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Dennis-YC Hsieh <dennis-
yc.hsieh@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chao Hao <chao.hao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Bibby Hsieh <bibby.hsieh@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019 Max Staudt <max@enpas.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Martin Sperl <kernel@martin.sperl.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Markus Reichl <m.reichl@fivetechno.de>
Copyright (c) 2019 Mantas Pucka <mantas@8devices.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Manivannan Sadhasivam <manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Manivannan Sadhasivam
Copyright (c) 2019 Linux Foundation
Copyright (c) 2019 Linaro, Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Linaro Ltd. Author: Manivannan Sadhasivam
<manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019 Linaro Ltd
Copyright (c) 2019 Linaro Limited, All rights reserved. Author: Mike Leach
<mike.leach@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Kevin Darbyshire-Bryant <ldir@darbyshire-bryant.me.uk>
Copyright (c) 2019 Katsuhiro Suzuki <katsuhiro@katsuster.net>
Copyright (c) 2019 Jernej Skrabec <jernej.skrabec@siol.net>
Copyright (c) 2019 Jeff Layton
Copyright (c) 2019 Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 2019 Jagan Teki <jagan@openedev.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Isovalent, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019 Intel Corporation. Lei Chuanhua <Chuanhua.lei@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2019 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2019 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd. Author: John Garry
<john.garry@huawei.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2019 Hardkernel Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2019 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Hammerspace Inc
Copyright (c) 2019 Guenter Roeck <linux@roeck-us.net>
Copyright (c) 2019 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@linuxfoundation.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Google LLC
Copyright (c) 2019 Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2019 Facebook Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019 Facebook Inc
Copyright (c) 2019 Facebook 
Copyright (c) 2019 Facebook
Copyright (c) 2019 Engicam srl
Copyright (c) 2019 David Ahern <dsahern@gmail.com>. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019 Crane Merchandising Systems. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019 Collabora, Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019 Clément Péron
Copyright (c) 2019 Cloudflare Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019 Cloudflare
Copyright (c) 2019 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (c) 2019 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (c) 2019 Christian Mauderer <oss@c-mauderer.de>
Copyright (c) 2019 Christian Hewitt <christianshewitt@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Chelsio Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019 Chao Yu <chao@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Carlos Neira cneirabustos@gmail.com
Copyright (c) 2019 Broadcom
Copyright (c) 2019 Brian Masney <masneyb@onstation.org>
Copyright (c) 2019 Bootlin
Copyright (c) 2019 Björn Töpel <bjorn.topel@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Baylibre, SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Baylibre SAS. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre, SAS. Author: James Liao <jamesjj.liao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre, SAS Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre SAS. All rights reserved. Author: Jerome Brunet
<jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 BayLibre SAS. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019 Artur Rojek <contact@artur-rojek.eu>
Copyright (c) 2019 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019 Angelo Dureghello <angelo.dureghello@timesys.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Andy Yan <andy.yan@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
Copyright (c) 2019 Andreas Klinger <ak@it-klinger.de>
Copyright (c) 2019 Andreas Färber
Copyright (c) 2019 Amlogic, Inc. Author: Jianxin Pan <jianxin.pan@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Xingyu Chen
<xingyu.chen@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Qianggui Song
<qianggui.song@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2019 Amlogic, Inc Author: Jianxin Pan <jianxin.pan@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Amarula Solutions(India)
Copyright (c) 2019 Alexey Dobriyan <adobriyan@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Alex Henrie <alexhenrie24@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Akash Gajjar <akash@openedev.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Akash Gajjar <Akash_Gajjar@mentor.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 Advantech Author: Amy.Shih <amy.shih@advantech.com.tw>
Copyright (c) 2019 AVL DiTEST GmbH Tomislav Denis <tomislav.denis@avl.com>
Copyright (c) 2019 - 2022 Calian Advanced Technologies
Copyright (c) 2019 - 2022 Beijing WangXun Technology Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2019 - 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2019 - 2020 1&1 IONOS SE. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2022 by Geoffrey D. Bennett <g at b4.vu>
Copyright (c) 2018-2022 Oracle Corporation Authors: Liam R. Howlett
<Liam.Howlett@oracle.com> Matthew Wilcox <willy@infradead.org>
Copyright (c) 2018-2022 Oracle Corporation Author: Liam R. Howlett
<Liam.Howlett@Oracle.com>
Copyright (c) 2018-2022 Oracle Authors: Liam R. Howlett
<Liam.Howlett@Oracle.com> Matthew Wilcox <willy@infradead.org>
Copyright (c) 2018-2022 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (c) 2018-2022 Microchip Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2022 Broadcom Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018-2021, Topic Embedded Products
Copyright (c) 2018-2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2021, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2021, Arm ltd. Written by: Quentin Perret, Arm ltd. Lukasz
Luba, Arm ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2018-2021 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (c) 2018-2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2020, Topic Embedded Products
Copyright (c) 2018-2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2020, Silicon Laboratories, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018-2020, Silicon Laboratories Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018-2020, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2018-2020, Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2018-2020, 2022, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2020 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2020 Oracle Author: Matthew Wilcox <willy@infradead.org>
Copyright (c) 2018-2020 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2018-2019, Vladimir Oltean <olteanv@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018-2019, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2019, Linaro Ltd. Author: Georgi Djakov
<georgi.djakov@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2018-2019, 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 by Vijai Kumar K Author: Vijai Kumar K
<vijaikumar.kanagarajan@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 Synopsys, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 SiFive, Inc
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 Pensando Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 Paulo Alcantara <palcantara@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2018-2019 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (c) 2018-2018 David Veenstra <davidjulianveenstra@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018-19, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2018, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018, The Linux Foundation
Copyright (c) 2018, Sensor-Technik Wiedemann GmbH
Copyright (c) 2018, Robert Marko <robimarko@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018, Oracle and/or its affiliates
Copyright (c) 2018, Oleksandr Andrushchenko, EPAM Systems Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018, Nuvoton Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2018, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018, NVIDIA CORPORATION.
Copyright (c) 2018, Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018, Mellanox Technologies All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018, Mahesh Bandewar <maheshb@google.com>
Copyright (c) 2018, Linaro Ltd. Author: Manivannan Sadhasivam
<manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2018, Linaro Ltd. Author: Georgi Djakov <georgi.djakov@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2018, Linaro Ltd
Copyright (c) 2018, Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2018, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2018, Intel Corporation. 
Copyright (c) 2018, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2018, Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018, Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018, Ericsson AB All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018, Eideticom Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018, DENX Software Engineering GmbH Author: Parthiban Nallathambi
<pn@denx.de>
Copyright (c) 2018, Craig Tatlor.
Copyright (c) 2018, Covalent IO, Inc. http://covalent.io
Copyright (c) 2018, Collabora Ltd. Author: Enric Balletbo i Serra
<enric.balletbo@collabora.com>
Copyright (c) 2018, Broadcom
Copyright (c) 2018, 2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018, 2019 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 exceet electronics GmbH
Copyright (c) 2018 by Benjamin Valentin <benpicco@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 William Whistler <wtbw@wtbw.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2018 Vitaly Chikunov <vt@altlinux.org>
Copyright (c) 2018 Vincent Pelletier
Copyright (c) 2018 Vadim Pasternak <vadimp@mellanox.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 VMware
Copyright (c) 2018 Todd Kelner
Copyright (c) 2018 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
Copyright (c) 2018 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Texas Instruments Author: Sekhar Nori <nsekhar@ti.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Takashi Sakamoto
Copyright (c) 2018 Synopsys, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2018 Socionext Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Simon Shields <simon@lineageos.org>
Copyright (c) 2018 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2018 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2018 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Marek Szyprowski
<m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Andrey Ryabinin
<ryabinin.a.a@gmail.com> Author: Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2018 Rodrigo Rivas Costa <rodrigorivascosta@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Rockchip, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Sugar Zhang
<sugar.zhang@rock-chips.com> Author: Nicolas Frattaroli
<frattaroli.nicolas@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Sugar Zhang
<sugar.zhang@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Finley Xiao
<finley.xiao@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Elaine
Zhang<zhangqing@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 Redpine Signals Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Quantenna Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Quantenna Communications
Copyright (c) 2018 Protonic, Robin van der Gracht <robin@protonic.nl>
Copyright (c) 2018 Protonic Holland
Copyright (c) 2018 Politecnico di Torino
Copyright (c) 2018 Peter Ganzhorn <peter.ganzhorn@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Pengutronix, Philipp Zabel
Copyright (c) 2018 Pengutronix, Oleksij Rempel <o.rempel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2018 Patong Yang <patong.mxl@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Oracle Corporation Author: Matthew Wilcox
<willy@infradead.org>
Copyright (c) 2018 Ondrej Mosnacek <omosnacek@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Oleksandr Andrushchenko, EPAM Systems Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Oleg Ivanov <balbes-150@yandex.ru>
Copyright (c) 2018 Nuvoton Technology tomer.maimon@nuvoton.com
Copyright (c) 2018 Nuvoton Technology corporation.
Copyright (c) 2018 Nuvoton Technology
Copyright (c) 2018 Nikolai Kondrashov
Copyright (c) 2018 Netronome Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 NXP
Copyright (c) 2018 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2018 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 MundoReader S.L. Author: Heiko Stuebner
<heiko.stuebner@bq.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Mobiveil Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Miquèl RAYNAL <miquel.raynal@bootlin.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2018 Microsemi
Copyright (c) 2018 Microchip Technology, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Melvin Vermeeren
Copyright (c) 2018 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved 
Copyright (c) 2018 Mellanox Technologies. 
Copyright (c) 2018 Mellanox Technologies
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Zhiyong Tao <zhiyong.tao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Wu <yong.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Weiyi Lu <weiyi.lu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Shunli Wang <shunli.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Owen Chen <owen.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: KaiChieh Chuang
<kaichieh.chuang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Jitao Shi <jitao.shi@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Jie Qiu <jie.qiu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Houlong Wei <houlong.wei@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chunhui Dai <chunhui.dai@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chunfeng Yun
<chunfeng.yun@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chenglin Xu <chenglin.xu@mediatek.com>
Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ben Ho <ben.ho@mediatek.com> Erin Lo
<erin.lo@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Matthew Wilcox <willy@infradead.org>
Copyright (c) 2018 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>.
Copyright (c) 2018 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Manivannan Sadhasivam <manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2018 Manivannan Sadhasivam
Copyright (c) 2018 Macronix
Copyright (c) 2018 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2018 Linaro Ltd. Author: Manivannan Sadhasivam
<manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2018 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 Linaro Limited, All rights reserved. Author: Mike Leach
<mike.leach@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2018 Lightbits Labs. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Liam R. Howlett <Liam.Howlett@Oracle.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 LSI-TEC - Caninos Loucos Author: Edgar Bernardi Righi
<edgar.righi@lsitec.org.br>
Copyright (c) 2018 LSI-TEC - Caninos Loucos
Copyright (c) 2018 Kontron Electronics GmbH
Copyright (c) 2018 Julian Sax <jsbc@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2018 Juergen Gross
Copyright (c) 2018 Johannes Thumshirn, SUSE Linux GmbH
Copyright (c) 2018 Jim Wilson (jimw@sifive.com)
Copyright (c) 2018 Jesper Dangaard Brouer, Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Jernej Skrabec <jernej.skrabec@siol.net>
Copyright (c) 2018 James.Bottomley@HansenPartnership.com
Copyright (c) 2018 Inventec Corporation
Copyright (c) 2018 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Intel Corporation 
Copyright (c) 2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2018 Inspur Corporation
Copyright (c) 2018 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (c) 2018 IBM Corp.
Copyright (c) 2018 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2018 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 He Yangxuan
Copyright (c) 2018 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Hanno Zulla <kontakt@hanno.de>
Copyright (c) 2018 Guillaume Douézan-Grard
Copyright (c) 2018 Guenter Roeck
Copyright (c) 2018 Google, Inc. Author: Andrey Konovalov <andreyknvl@google.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Google, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Google LLC
Copyright (c) 2018 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2018 FriendlyElec Computer Tech. Co., Ltd.
http://www.friendlyarm.com)
Copyright (c) 2018 Facebook, Inc. Author: Johannes Weiner <hannes@cmpxchg.org>
Copyright (c) 2018 Facebook Inc. Author: Vijay Khemka <vijaykhemka@fb.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Facebook Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Facebook
Copyright (c) 2018 Dmitry V. Levin <ldv@altlinux.org> All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Dmitry Safonov, Arista Networks
Copyright (c) 2018 Dmitry Safonov
Copyright (c) 2018 Davide Caratti, Red Hat inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 David Ahern <dsa@cumulusnetworks.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Daniel M. Lambea <dmlambea@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Cumulus Networks. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Crane Merchandising Systems. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Covalent IO, Inc. http://covalent.io
Copyright (c) 2018 Covalent IO, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 Christian Hewitt
Copyright (c) 2018 Chris Coffey <cmc@babblebit.net> Slawomir Stepien
Copyright (c) 2018 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright (c) 2018 Chelsio, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Chelsio Communications, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Cadence Design Systems Author: Alan Douglas
<adouglas@cadence.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Broadcom. All Rights Reserved. The term “Broadcom” refers to
Broadcom Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
Copyright (c) 2018 Broadcom. All Rights Reserved. The term "Broadcom" refers to
Broadcom Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
Copyright (c) 2018 Broadcom Inc
Copyright (c) 2018 Bootlin
Copyright (c) 2018 Bitmain Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 Baylibre, SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Baylibre SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com> Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 BayLibre SAS. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Axentia Technologies AB Author: Peter Rosin <peda@axentia.se>
Copyright (c) 2018 Andrew Lutomirski
Copyright (c) 2018 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018 Amlogic, inc. Author: Yue Wang <yue.wang@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Amlogic, inc. Author: Qiufang Dai <qiufang.dai@amlogic.com>
Author: Yixun Lan <yixun.lan@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Amlogic, inc. Author: Qiufang Dai <qiufang.dai@amlogic.com>
Author: Jian Hu <jian.hu@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Amlogic, inc. Author: Qiufang Dai <qiufang.dai@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Amlogic, inc. Author: Liang Yang <liang.yang@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Xingyu Chen
<xingyu.chen@amlogic.com> Author: Yixun Lan <yixun.lan@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Xingyu Chen
<xingyu.chen@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 Alexandre Belloni <alexandre.belloni@bootlin.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 Akash Gajjar <Akash_Gajjar@mentor.com>
Copyright (c) 2018 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2018 - Bootlin
Copyright (c) 2018 - 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2018 - 2020 Microchip Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2018 - 2019 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2018 - 2019 1&1 IONOS Cloud GmbH. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-present, Facebook, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2022 Tesla, Inc. https://www.tesla.com
Copyright (c) 2017-2022 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. https://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2017-2022 Linaro Ltd
Copyright (c) 2017-2022 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2017-2021, Rockchip Inc. Author: Shawn Lin <shawn.lin@rock-
chips.com> Chris Morgan <macroalpha82@gmail.com> Jon Lin <Jon.lin@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2017-2021, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2017-2021 Tesla, Inc. https://www.tesla.com
Copyright (c) 2017-2021 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. https://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2017-2021 Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (c) 2017-2021 NXP
Copyright (c) 2017-2021 Cirrus Logic Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2021 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (c) 2017-2021 Artur Rojek <contact@artur-rojek.eu>
Copyright (c) 2017-2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2020, Silicon Laboratories, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2020, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2020 Pensando Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2020 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2017-2020 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2017-2019, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019, Silicon Laboratories, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019, Linaro Ltd. Author: Georgi Djakov
<georgi.djakov@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2017-2019, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Socionext Inc. Reworked by Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Samuel Holland <samuel@sholland.org>
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Ronald Tschalär
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Pengutronix, Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Pengutronix, Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Pali Rohár <pali@kernel.org> All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Linaro, Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Jiri Slaby
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Borislav Petkov, SUSE Labs.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 Andreas Färber
Copyright (c) 2017-2018, The Linux foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2017-2018, Ericsson AB All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018, Arm Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Socionext Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Ronald Tschalär
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Ondrej Mosnacek <omosnacek@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Microsoft Corporation
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved 
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com> Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Covalent IO, Inc. http://covalent.io
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Chelsio Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Broadcom Limited
Copyright (c) 2017-2018 Brian Masney <masneyb@onstation.org>
Copyright (c) 2017-19 David Ahern <dsa@cumulusnetworks.com>
Copyright (c) 2017-19 Cumulus Networks
Copyright (c) 2017-18 Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2017-18 David Ahern <dsahern@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017, Xilinx Inc
Copyright (c) 2017, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, Open Grid Computing, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017, National Instruments Corp.
Copyright (c) 2017, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2017, Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2017, Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2017, Microchip Technology Inc. Author: Tudor Ambarus
<tudor.ambarus@microchip.com>
Copyright (c) 2017, Microchip Technology Inc. 2017 Cristian Birsan
<cristian.birsan@microchip.com> 2017 Claudiu Beznea
<claudiu.beznea@microchip.com>
Copyright (c) 2017, Microchip Technology Inc. 2016 Nicolas Ferre
<nicolas.ferre@atmel.com> 2017 Cristian Birsan <cristian.birsan@microchip.com>
2017 Claudiu Beznea <claudiu.beznea@microchip.com>
Copyright (c) 2017, Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, Mellanox Technologies, Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, Maxim Integrated
Copyright (c) 2017, Linaro Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017, Linaro Ltd
Copyright (c) 2017, Linaro Limited Author: Georgi Djakov
<georgi.djakov@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2017, Intel Corporation. Ricardo Neri <ricardo.neri-
calderon@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2017, Intel Corporation. Author: Andi Kleen
Copyright (c) 2017, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2017, Impinj, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017, I2SE GmbH
Copyright (c) 2017, HiSilicon. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, General Electric Company
Copyright (c) 2017, Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2017, Ericsson AB All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2017, Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017, Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (c) 2017, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author(s): Iyappan
Subramanian <isubramanian@apm.com> Keyur Chudgar <kchudgar@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2017, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author(s): Iyappan
Subramanian <isubramanian@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2017, 2021-2022 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2017, 2021-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2017, 2020-2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, 2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, 2019, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, 2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017, 2019 Paul Boddie <paul@boddie.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2017, 2019 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2017, 2018 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 exceet electronics GmbH
Copyright (c) 2017 Yotam Gigi <yotamg@mellanox.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Vadim Pasternak <vadimp@mellanox.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 VMware
Copyright (c) 2017 United Western Technologies, Corporation
Copyright (c) 2017 Tomasz Kramkowski <tk@the-tk.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
Copyright (c) 2017 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated Tero Kristo <t-kristo@ti.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Takashi Sakamoto
Copyright (c) 2017 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2017 T-Chip Intelligent Technology Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2017 Sysam, Angelo Dureghello <angelo@sysam.it>
Copyright (c) 2017 Synopsys, Inc. and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2017 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (c) 2017 Siemens AG
Copyright (c) 2017 Shubham Bansal <illusionist.neo@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Sebastian Reichel <sre@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2017 Savoir-faire Linux, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Savoir-faire Linux Inc. Vivien Didelot
<vivien.didelot@savoirfairelinux.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/ Author:
Andrzej Pietrasiewicz <andrzejtp2010@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Marek Szyprowski
<m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017 Sagi Grimberg.
Copyright (c) 2017 SUSE Linux GmbH Author: Andreas Färber
Copyright (c) 2017 SKIDATA AG
Copyright (c) 2017 Ruslan Bilovol <ruslan.bilovol@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Roopa Prabhu <roopa@cumulusnetworks.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Elaine <zhangqing@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017 Robert Munteanu
Copyright (c) 2017 Renesas Solutions Corp. Kuninori Morimoto
<kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Redpine Signals Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Red Hat, Inc. -- Jiri Benc <jbenc@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Red Hat, Inc
Copyright (c) 2017 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Radioavionica Corporation Author: Alex A. Mihaylov
<minimumlaw@rambler.ru>
Copyright (c) 2017 Priit Laes <plaes@plaes.org>.
Copyright (c) 2017 PrasannaKumar Muralidharan <prasannatsmkumar@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Pengutronix, Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2017 Pengutronix, Michael Grzeschik <m.grzeschik@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2017 Pengutronix, Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (c) 2017 Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
Copyright (c) 2017 Pablo M. Bermudo Garay <pablombg@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 PINE64
Copyright (c) 2017 Oscar Campos
Copyright (c) 2017 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 Oliver Hartkopp <socketcan@hartkopp.net>
Copyright (c) 2017 Oleg <balbes-150@yandex.ru>
Copyright (c) 2017 Nikolai Kondrashov
Copyright (c) 2017 Niels Skou Olsen <nolsen@jabra.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Nicira, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 National Instruments Erik Hons <erik.hons@ni.com> Brandon
Streiff <brandon.streiff@ni.com> Dane Wagner <dane.wagner@ni.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 National Instruments Brandon Streiff <brandon.streiff@ni.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 NXP.
Copyright (c) 2017 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2017 Microsoft Corporation Author: Matthew Wilcox
<willy@infradead.org>
Copyright (c) 2017 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2017 Microchip Technology Inc. Tristram Ha
<Tristram.Ha@microchip.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Microchip Technology
Copyright (c) 2017 Microchip Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2017 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 Mellanox Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 Mellanox Technologies Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 Melexis <cmo@melexis.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Wu <yong.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: YT Shen <yt.shen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Weiyi Lu <weiyi.lu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Honghui Zhang <honghui.zhang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ming Huang <ming.huang@mediatek.com>
Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Mars.C <mars.cheng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Kevin-CW Chen <kevin-
cw.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Kevin Chen <kevin-cw.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chenglin Xu <chenglin.xu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chen Zhong <chen.zhong@mediatek.com>
Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chen Zhong <chen.zhong@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Maxime Ripard.
Copyright (c) 2017 Maxim Integrated
Copyright (c) 2017 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>.
Copyright (c) 2017 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Mariusz Bialonczyk <manio@skyboo.net>
Copyright (c) 2017 Marek Szyprowski
Copyright (c) 2017 Manivannan Sadhasivam <manivannanece23@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Maciej S. Szmigiero <mail@maciej.szmigiero.name>
Copyright (c) 2017 Lucas Stach, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2017 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2017 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017 Linaro Limited. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2017 Ksenija Stanojevic <ksenija.stanojevic@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2017 Konsulko Group Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 Josef Filzmaier <j.filzmaier@gmx.at>
Copyright (c) 2017 Jonathan Liu.
Copyright (c) 2017 Jonas Karlman
Copyright (c) 2017 Jiri Pirko <jiri@mellanox.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Jesper Dangaard Brouer, Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Jack Andersen
Copyright (c) 2017 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (c) 2017 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2017 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2017 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (c) 2017 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (c) 2017 Huawei Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2017 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2017 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Google, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Google Inc. Author: Wei-Ning Huang <wnhuang@google.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Google Inc
Copyright (c) 2017 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2017 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2017 Free Electrons <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Free Electrons
Copyright (c) 2017 Facebook Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Facebook
Copyright (c) 2017 Eva Rachel Retuya <eraretuya@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Ericsson AB All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 Diego Elio Pettenò <flameeyes@flameeyes.eu>
Copyright (c) 2017 Dialog Semiconductor
Copyright (c) 2017 Dell Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Covalent IO, Inc. http://covalent.io
Copyright (c) 2017 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (c) 2017 Chen-Yu Tsai. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 Chelsio Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 Chao Yu <chao@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2017 Cavium.
Copyright (c) 2017 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017 Carlo Caione
Copyright (c) 2017 Cadence Author: Cyrille Pitchen <cyrille.pitchen@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Broadcom Limited
Copyright (c) 2017 Broadcom
Copyright (c) 2017 Beckhoff Automation GmbH & Co. KG
Copyright (c) 2017 Baylibre SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com> Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com> Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 BayLibre SAS Author: Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Bastien Nocera <hadess@hadess.net>
Copyright (c) 2017 Angelo Dureghello <angelo@sysam.it>
Copyright (c) 2017 Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
Copyright (c) 2017 Andreas Klinger <ak@it-klinger.de>
Copyright (c) 2017 Andreas Färber
Copyright (c) 2017 Andi Shyti <andi@etezian.org>
Copyright (c) 2017 Amlogic, inc. Author: Yixun Lan <yixun.lan@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Amlogic, inc. Author: Qiufang Dai <qiufang.dai@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Xingyu Chen
<xingyu.chen@amlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2017 Alex Manoussakis <amanou@gnu.org>
Copyright (c) 2017 Akinobu Mita <akinobu.mita@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2017 Aaron Bottegal
Copyright (c) 2017 - 2022: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. https://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2017 - 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2017 - 2019, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2017 - 2018 Covalent IO, Inc. http://covalent.io
Copyright (c) 2016-present, Facebook, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2022 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (c) 2016-2021, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2016-2021, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
angelogioacchino.delregno@somainline.org>
Copyright (c) 2016-2021 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab+huawei@kernel.org>.
Copyright (c) 2016-2021 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (c) 2016-2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2020 INRIA, CMU and Microsoft Corporation
Copyright (c) 2016-2019, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2019 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016-2019 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2016-2019 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016-2019 Broadcom Limited
Copyright (c) 2016-2019 Andreas Färber
Copyright (c) 2016-2018, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2018, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2018, Logan Gunthorpe
Copyright (c) 2016-2018, 2020-2021 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2018, 2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2018 Socionext Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016-2018 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2016-2018 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2018 Nuvoton Technology corporation.
Copyright (c) 2016-2018 Microsoft Corporation
Copyright (c) 2016-2018 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2016-2018 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2016-2018 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016-2018 Christoph Hellwig. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2018 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016-2018 Broadcom Limited
Copyright (c) 2016-2018 Broadcom Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017, National Instruments Corp.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2016-2017, Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2016-2017, Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017, Linaro Ltd
Copyright (c) 2016-2017, Lance Chao <lancerchao@fb.com>. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017, Elena Reshetova, Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2016-2017, Dave Watson <davejwatson@fb.com>. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017, 2019, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 VMware, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Socionext Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Savoir-faire Linux Inc. Vivien Didelot
<vivien.didelot@savoirfairelinux.com>
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Micron Technology, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Marcel Hasler <mahasler@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Lucas Stach, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Erik Stromdahl <erik.stromdahl@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Broadcom Limited
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Brian Masney <masneyb@onstation.org>
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Andreas Färber
Copyright (c) 2016,2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2016,2017 Facebook
Copyright (c) 2016,2017 Daniel Mack
Copyright (c) 2016, Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (c) 2016, Western Digital
Copyright (c) 2016, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016, ROCKCHIP CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016, Prodys S.L.
Copyright (c) 2016, Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016, Nikos Mavrogiannopoulos <nmav@gnutls.org>. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016, NVIDIA Corporation. Author: Laxman Dewangan
<ldewangan@nvidia.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (c) 2016, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved. Author: Neo Jia
<cjia@nvidia.com> Kirti Wankhede <kwankhede@nvidia.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016, Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2016, Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016, Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016, Mellanox Technologies, Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016, Linaro Ltd
Copyright (c) 2016, Linaro Limited Author: Linus Walleij
<linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2016, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2016, Jelle van der Waa <jelle@vdwaa.nl>
Copyright (c) 2016, Jamal Hadi Salim
Copyright (c) 2016, Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2016, Intel Corporation Authors: Weigang Li <weigang.li@intel.com>
Giovanni Cabiddu <giovanni.cabiddu@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, Intel Corporation Authors: Salvatore Benedetto
<salvatore.benedetto@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, Intel Corporation Authors: Salvator Benedetto
<salvatore.benedetto@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, Intel Corporation Author: Giovanni Cabiddu
<giovanni.cabiddu@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2016, General Electric Company
Copyright (c) 2016, Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Lin Huang
<hl@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd Author: Lin Huang
<hl@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2016, Fridolin Pokorny <fridolin.pokorny@gmail.com>. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016, Facebook
Copyright (c) 2016, Ericsson AB All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016, EPAM Systems
Copyright (c) 2016, Dyna-Image Corp.
Copyright (c) 2016, Dell Inc
Copyright (c) 2016, Damien Le Moal
Copyright (c) 2016, Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016, Citrix Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016, Citrix Systems Inc
Copyright (c) 2016, Cascoda, Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016, BayLibre, SAS. All rights reserved. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, Avago Technologies
Copyright (c) 2016, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Authors: Khuong Dinh
<kdinh@apm.com> Tanmay Inamdar <tinamdar@apm.com> Iyappan Subramanian
<isubramanian@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Loc Ho
<lho@apm.com> Hoan Tran <hotran@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Iyappan
Subramanian <isubramanian@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Hoan Tran
<hotran@apm.com> Tai Nguyen <ttnguyen@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno <kholk11@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016, Amir Vadai <amir@vadai.me>
Copyright (c) 2016, 2017 Andreas Klinger <ak@it-klinger.de>
Copyright (c) 2016 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>.
Copyright (c) 2016 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab+samsung@kernel.org>.
Copyright (c) 2016 by Detlef Urban (onkel@paraair.de)
Copyright (c) 2016 Yuxuan Shui <yshuiv7@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Yusuke Fujimaki <usk.fujimaki@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Yang Ling <gnaygnil@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Victor Vlasenko <victor.vlasenko@sysgears.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Vadim Pasternak <vadimp@mellanox.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 VMware
Copyright (c) 2016 Trond Myklebust
Copyright (c) 2016 Tom Herbert <tom@herbertland.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Tom Haynes <loghyr@primarydata.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Thomas Graf <tgraf@tgraf.ch>
Copyright (c) 2016 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (c) 2016 Takashi Sakamoto
Copyright (c) 2016 Slawomir Stepien
Copyright (c) 2016 Shuah Khan <shuahkh@osg.samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Sargun Dhillon <sargun@sargun.me>
Copyright (c) 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com Author:
Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Donghwa Lee
<dh09.lee@samsung.com> Hyungwon Hwang <human.hwang@samsung.com> Hoegeun Kwon
<hoegeun.kwon@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author : Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2016 SUMOMO Computer Association https://www.sumomo.mobi Randy Li
<ayaka@soulik.info>
Copyright (c) 2016 Rockchip, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Xing Zheng
<zhengxing@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Shawn Lin
<shawn.lin@rock-chips.com> Andy Yan <andy.yan@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Shawn Lin
<shawn.lin@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Lin Huang <hl@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Elaine <zhangqing@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Renesas Electronics Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 Randy Li <ayaka@soulik.info>
Copyright (c) 2016 Quentin Schulz <quentin.schulz@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Quantenna Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc
Copyright (c) 2016 Protonic Holland
Copyright (c) 2016 Petr Kulhavy <petr@barix.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Paweł Jarosz <paweljarosz3691@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Parrot S.A.
Copyright (c) 2016 Paolo Abeni <pabeni@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 PMC-Sierra, Inc. mailto:storagedev@microchip.com
Copyright (c) 2016 PMC-Sierra, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 PLUMgrid
Copyright (c) 2016 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Oracle. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Author:
Khalid Aziz (khalid.aziz@oracle.com)
Copyright (c) 2016 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Microsemi. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (c) 2016 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Mellanox Technologies, LTD. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Mellanox Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Mediatek Authors:    Xiaolei Li <xiaolei.li@mediatek.com>
Jorge Ramirez-Ortiz        <jorge.ramirez-ortiz@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Zhiyong Tao <zhiyong.tao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Youlin.Pei <youlin.pei@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Tiffany Lin <tiffany.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: PoChun Lin <pochun.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: PC Chen <pc.chen@mediatek.com> Tiffany
Lin <tiffany.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: PC Chen <pc.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ming Hsiu Tsai
<minghsiu.tsai@mediatek.com> Rick Chang <rick.chang@mediatek.com> Xia Jiang
<xia.jiang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ming Hsiu Tsai
<minghsiu.tsai@mediatek.com> Rick Chang <rick.chang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ming Hsiu Tsai
<minghsiu.tsai@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Mars.C <mars.cheng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Koro Chen <koro.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Kevin Chen <kevin-cw.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Jungchang Tsao
<jungchang.tsao@mediatek.com> PC Chen <pc.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Jungchang Tsao
<jungchang.tsao@mediatek.com> Daniel Hsiao <daniel.hsiao@mediatek.com> Tiffany
Lin <tiffany.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Jungchang Tsao
<jungchang.tsao@mediatek.com> Daniel Hsiao <daniel.hsiao@mediatek.com> PoChun
Lin <pochun.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ir Lian <ir.lian@mediatek.com> Garlic
Tseng <garlic.tseng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Garlic Tseng
<garlic.tseng@mediatek.com> Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Garlic Tseng
<garlic.tseng@mediatek.com> Ir Lian <ir.lian@mediatek.com> Ryder Lee
<ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Garlic Tseng
<garlic.tseng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Daniel Hsiao
<daniel.hsiao@mediatek.com> PoChun Lin <pochun.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Daniel Hsiao
<daniel.hsiao@mediatek.com> Kai-Sean Yang <kai-sean.yang@mediatek.com> Tiffany
Lin <tiffany.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Daniel Hsiao
<daniel.hsiao@mediatek.com> Jungchang Tsao <jungchang.tsao@mediatek.com> Tiffany
Lin <tiffany.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chen Zhong <chen.zhong@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Andrew-CT Chen <andrew-
ct.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 Maxime Ripard. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 MaxLinear, Inc. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2016 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 Matthias Brugger <mbrugger@suse.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Matthew Wilcox <willy@infradead.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 Masaki Ota <masaki.ota@jp.alps.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Martin Kepplinger <martink@posteo.de>
Copyright (c) 2016 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>.
Copyright (c) 2016 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (c) 2016 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2016 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 Linaro Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016 Linaro Ltd
Copyright (c) 2016 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2016 Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Laura Garcia <nevola@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Kuninori Morimoto <kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Ksenija Stanojevic <ksenija.stanojevic@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Krzysztof Kozlowski
Copyright (c) 2016 Krzysztof Blaszkowski
Copyright (c) 2016 Kinglong Mee
Copyright (c) 2016 Jonathan McDowell <noodles@earth.li>
Copyright (c) 2016 John Fastabend <john.r.fastabend@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 Joel Holdsworth
Copyright (c) 2016 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Jiri Pirko <jiri@mellanox.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Jan Kandziora <jjj@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2016 Jamal Hadi Salim <jhs@mojatatu.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Ivan Vecera <cera@cera.cz>
Copyright (c) 2016 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (c) 2016 Intel Corporation. Author: Sakari Ailus
<sakari.ailus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Intel Corporation. Author: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2016 Intel Corporation Author: Ross Zwisler
<ross.zwisler@linux.intel.com> Author: Matthew Wilcox
<matthew.r.wilcox@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Intel Corporation Author: Ross Zwisler
<ross.zwisler@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2016 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (c) 2016 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (c) 2016 IBM Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2016 Huawei Limited.
Copyright (c) 2016 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2016 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2016 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2016 Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (c) 2016 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 HGST, a Western Digital Company.
Copyright (c) 2016 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2016 Golden Delicious Comp. GmbH&Co. KG Nikolaus Schaller
<hns@goldelico.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2016 Free Electrons NextThing Co. Quentin Schulz
<quentin.schulz@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Frederik Wenigwieser <frederik.wenigwieser@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Facebook
Copyright (c) 2016 FUKAUMI Naoki <naobsd@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Eric Biederman <ebiederm@xmission.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Endless Computers, Inc. Author: Carlo Caione
<carlo@endlessm.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Dmitry Safonov Suggested-by: Andrew Lutomirski
Copyright (c) 2016 David Herrmann
Copyright (c) 2016 Daniel Mack
Copyright (c) 2016 Citrix Systems Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 Cirrus Logic Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (c) 2016 Chen-Yu Tsai. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright (c) 2016 Chen Zhong <chen.zhong@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Chelsio Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Chelsio Communications, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 Chanwoo Choi <cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Cavium Inc. (support@cavium.com).
Copyright (c) 2016 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Broadcom
Copyright (c) 2016 Brendan McGrath <redmcg@redmandi.dyndns.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 Baylibre SAS. Author: Michael Turquette
<mturquette@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Kevin Hilman <khilman@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, SAS. Author : Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, Inc. Michael Turquette <mturquette@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, Inc. Author: Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, Inc. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, Inc. Author: Kevin Hilman <khilman@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 BayLibre, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 Baolin Wang <baolin.wang@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2016 Avago Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Andy Yan <andy.yan@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Andrew Worsley amworsley@gmail.com
Copyright (c) 2016 Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
Copyright (c) 2016 Andreas Klinger <ak@it-klinger.de>
Copyright (c) 2016 Andreas Färber
Copyright (c) 2016 Anders K. Pedersen <akp@cohaesio.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Amlogic, Inc. Author: Michael Turquette
<mturquette@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 AmLogic, Inc. Michael Turquette <mturquette@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 AmLogic, Inc. Author: Michael Turquette
<mturquette@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Allwinnertech Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016 Alexandrov Stanislav <neko@nya.ai>
Copyright (c) 2016 Alexandre Belloni
Copyright (c) 2016 Akinobu Mita <akinobu.mita@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2016 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2016 - Savoir-faire Linux Author: Sebastien Bourdelin
<sebastien.bourdelin@savoirfairelinux.com>
Copyright (c) 2016 - Savoir-faire Linux
Copyright (c) 2016 - 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2016 - 2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2016 - 2017, Broadcom. All rights reserved. The term Broadcom
refers to Broadcom Limited and/or its subsidiaries.
Copyright (c) 2016 - 2017 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (c) 2015-2022, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2015-2022 Mathieu Desnoyers <mathieu.desnoyers@efficios.com>
Copyright (c) 2015-2022 Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2015-2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2021, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2015-2021, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2015-2021 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2020, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2015-2020, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2020 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015-2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2015-2019 Federico Lorenzi
Copyright (c) 2015-2018, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2018, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2015-2018, 2020-2021 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2018, 2020 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2018 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2018 Terry Junge <terry.junge@plantronics.com>
Copyright (c) 2015-2018 Socionext Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015-2018 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015-2018 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2018 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved 
Copyright (c) 2015-2018 Mathieu Desnoyers <mathieu.desnoyers@efficios.com>
Copyright (c) 2015-2018 Federico Lorenzi
Copyright (c) 2015-2017, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2017, The Linux Foundation.
Copyright (c) 2015-2017, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2017, 2019-2021 Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2015-2017 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2017 Takashi Sakamoto <o-takashi@sakamocchi.jp>
Copyright (c) 2015-2017 Takashi Sakamoto
Copyright (c) 2015-2017 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015-2017 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2015-2017 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2017 Daniel Borkmann
Copyright (c) 2015-2017 Broadcom
Copyright (c) 2015-2016, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016, Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016, Linaro Limited All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2015-2016, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016, Integrated Device Technology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Quantenna Communications. All rights reserved. 
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Quantenna Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Quantenna Communications
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yong Wu <yong.wu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Houlong Wei
<houlong.wei@mediatek.com> Ming Hsiu Tsai <minghsiu.tsai@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 MediaTek Inc. Author: Honghui Zhang
<honghui.zhang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 HGST, a Western Digital Company.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015-2016 FUJITSU LIMITED
Copyright (c) 2015--2017 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2015,2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015,2017 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015,2016 Krzysztof Kozlowski
Copyright (c) 2015, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (c) 2015, Sony Mobile Communications, AB.
Copyright (c) 2015, Sony Mobile Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015, Sony Mobile Communications AB.
Copyright (c) 2015, Sony Mobile Communications AB
Copyright (c) 2015, SUSE Linux GmbH
Copyright (c) 2015, Roger Pau Monne <roger.pau@citrix.com>
Copyright (c) 2015, Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015, RapidIO Trade Association All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, RapidIO Trade Association
Copyright (c) 2015, ROCKCHIP CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, Prodrive Technologies
Copyright (c) 2015, Primary Data, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, National Instruments Corp. Author: Moritz Fischer
<moritz.fischer@ettus.com>
Copyright (c) 2015, National Instruments Corp.
Copyright (c) 2015, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2015, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, Mellanox Technologies, Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, Linaro Ltd., written by Grant Likely.
Copyright (c) 2015, Linaro Ltd. Author: Fu Wei <fu.wei@linaro.org> Suravee
Suthikulpanit <Suravee.Suthikulpanit@amd.com> Al Stone <al.stone@linaro.org>
Timur Tabi <timur@codeaurora.org>
Copyright (c) 2015, Linaro Limited, Shannon Zhao
Copyright (c) 2015, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2015, LGE Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2015, Intel Corporation Authors: Tadeusz Struk
<tadeusz.struk@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2015, Intel Corporation Author: Lv Zheng <lv.zheng@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2015, Integrated Device Technology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015, Huawei Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, Hans Ulli Kroll <ulli.kroll@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015, Hannes Reinecke
Copyright (c) 2015, Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015, Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2015, Ericsson AB All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, Daniel Thompson
Copyright (c) 2015, Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (c) 2015, Christoph Hellwig <hch@lst.de>.
Copyright (c) 2015, Boaz Harrosh <boaz@plexistor.com>.
Copyright (c) 2015, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Authors: Rameshwar Prasad
Sahu <rsahu@apm.com> Loc Ho <lho@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2015, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Iyappan
Subramanian <isubramanian@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2015, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Feng Kan
fkan@apm.com
Copyright (c) 2015, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Feng Kan
<fkan@apm.com> Loc Ho <lho@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2015, Advanced Micro Devices Author: Brijesh Singh
<brijesh.singh@amd.com>
Copyright (c) 2015, 2019, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, 2018, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, 2017-2018, 2022, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, 2017, 2022 Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2015, 2017 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, Primary Data, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016, IBM Corporation
Copyright (c) 2015, 2016 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2015 secunet Security Networks AG
Copyright (c) 2015 by Kamil Debski
Copyright (c) 2015 Zoltán Böszörményi <zboszor@pr.hu>
Copyright (c) 2015 Zhang, Keguang <keguang.zhang@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Weida Hi-Tech Co., Ltd. HN Chen <hn.chen@weidahitech.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Vladimir Zapolskiy <vz@mleia.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Tom Herbert <tom@herbertland.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (c) 2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (c) 2015 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015 Takashi Sakamoto <o-takashi@sakamocchi.jp>
Copyright (c) 2015 Takashi Sakamoto
Copyright (c) 2015 TQ-Systems GmbH
Copyright (c) 2015 System Fabric Works, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 Steve French <steve.french@primarydata.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Shrijeet Mukherjee <shm@cumulusnetworks.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Sasha Levin <sasha.levin@oracle.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
<b.zolnierkie@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Andrey Ryabinin
<ryabinin.a.a@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author : Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2015 Samsung Electronics Authors: Jaegeuk Kim <jaegeuk@kernel.org>
Chao Yu <chao2.yu@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Sabrina Dubroca <sd@queasysnail.net>
Copyright (c) 2015 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Xing Zheng
<zhengxing@rock-chips.com> Jeffy Chen <jeffy.chen@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Xing Zheng
<zhengxing@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Jeffy Chen
<jeffy.chen@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Caesar Wang <wxt@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015 Red Hat, Inc
Copyright (c) 2015 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 ROCKCHIP, Co. Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2015 Quantenna Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 Quantenna Communications
Copyright (c) 2015 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015 Qualcomm Atheros Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2015 Pengutronix, Steffen Trumtrar <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2015 Pengutronix, Sascha Hauer <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2015 Pengutronix, Philipp Zabel <p.zabel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2015 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2015 Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
Copyright (c) 2015 PLUMgrid, http://plumgrid.com
Copyright (c) 2015 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Authors:
Bob Picco <bob.picco@oracle.com>, Khalid Aziz <khalid.aziz@oracle.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 Oliver Neukum <oneukum@suse.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Nordic Semiconductor. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 Nicira, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015 Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Neil Armstrong
Copyright (c) 2015 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2015 Motorola Mobility
Copyright (c) 2015 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 Melexis
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek, Shunli Wang <shunli.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Authors: YT Shen <yt.shen@mediatek.com> CK Hu
<ck.hu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Zhigang.Wei <zhigang.wei@mediatek.com>
Chunfeng.Yun <chunfeng.yun@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: YT SHEN <yt.shen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: YH Huang <yh.huang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Mars.C <mars.cheng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Leilk Liu <leilk.liu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Koro Chen <koro.chen@mediatek.com>
Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de> Hidalgo Huang <hidalgo.huang@mediatek.com>
Ir Lian <ir.lian@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Koro Chen <koro.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: James Liao <jamesjj.liao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Hongzhou.Yang
<hongzhou.yang@mediatek.com> Yingjoe Chen <yingjoe.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Hongzhou.Yang
<hongzhou.yang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Honghui Zhang
<honghui.zhang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Henry Chen <henryc.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Hanyi Wu <hanyi.wu@mediatek.com> Sascha
Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de> Dawei Chien <dawei.chien@mediatek.com> Louis Yu
<louis.yu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Erin.Lo <erin.lo@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Erin Lo <erin.lo@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chunfeng Yun
<chunfeng.yun@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: CK Hu <ck.hu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Biao Huang <biao.huang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Andrew-CT Chen <andrew-
ct.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015 Measurement-Specialties
Copyright (c) 2015 Markus Stockhausen <stockhausen@collogia.de>
Copyright (c) 2015 Lukasz Majewski <l.majewski@samsung.com> Anand Moon
<linux.amoon@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Lukas Wunner <lukas@wunner.de>
Copyright (c) 2015 Linear Technology
Copyright (c) 2015 Linaro, Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 Linaro Ltd. www.linaro.org
Copyright (c) 2015 Linaro Ltd. Author: Pi-Cheng Chen <pi-cheng.chen@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2015 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2015 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2015 Kuninori Morimoto <kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Krzysztof Kozlowski
Copyright (c) 2015 Kontron Author: Vadim V. Vlasov <vvlasov@dev.rtsoft.ru>
Copyright (c) 2015 K. Merker <merker@debian.org>
Copyright (c) 2015 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Jiri Pirko <jiri@resnulli.us>
Copyright (c) 2015 Jamal Hadi Salim <jhs@mojatatu.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Jaegeuk Kim <jaegeuk@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2015 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (c) 2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2015 Imagination Technologies Author: Paul Burton
<paul.burton@mips.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Imagination Technologies Author: Alex Smith <alex@alex-
smith.me.uk>
Copyright (c) 2015 Imagination Technologies Author: Alex Smith
<alex.smith@imgtec.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2015 HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2015 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2015 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2015 Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (c) 2015 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 HGST, a Western Digital Company.
Copyright (c) 2015 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Guenter Roeck
Copyright (c) 2015 Google, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2015 FUJITSU LIMITED
Copyright (c) 2015 Essensium NV
Copyright (c) 2015 Endless Mobile, Inc. Author: Carlo Caione
<carlo@endlessm.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Dialog Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2015 Dialog Semiconductor
Copyright (c) 2015 Denys Vlasenko
Copyright (c) 2015 David Ahern <dsa@cumulusnetworks.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Cumulus Networks. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 Cumulus Networks, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015 Cumulus Networks
Copyright (c) 2015 Collabora Ltd. Author: Sjoerd Simons
<sjoerd.simons@collabora.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2015 Clement Vuchener
Copyright (c) 2015 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright (c) 2015 Chelsio Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 Caesar Wang <wxt@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015 CMC Electronics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2015 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 Benjamin Tissoires
Copyright (c) 2015 Ben Dooks <ben.dooks@codethink.co.uk> for Codethink Ltd Carlo
Caione <carlo@endlessm.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 BMW Car IT GmbH
Copyright (c) 2015 Azael Avalos <coproscefalo@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Axis Communications AB
Copyright (c) 2015 Axentia Technologies AB Author: Peter Rosin <peda@axentia.se>
Copyright (c) 2015 Armadeus Systems
Copyright (c) 2015 Ariel D'Alessandro <ariel@vanguardiasur.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Andy Lutomirski
Copyright (c) 2015 Andrew Lutomirski
Copyright (c) 2015 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2015 6WIND S.A. Author: Nicolas Dichtel
<nicolas.dichtel@6wind.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 - Savoir-faire Linux
Copyright (c) 2015 - 2022 Beijing WangXun Technology Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2015 - 2021 Intel Corporation 
Copyright (c) 2015 - 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2015 - 2020 Xilinx, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2015 - 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2015 - 2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2015 - 2016 Stefan Schmidt <stefan@datenfreihafen.org>
Copyright (c) 2015 - 2016 Red Hat, Inc
Copyright (c) 2014-2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2021, Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014-2021 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2021 Nuvoton Technology corporation
Copyright (c) 2014-2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2020, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2014-2020, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014-2020 Broadcom
Copyright (c) 2014-2019, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2018, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2018, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2018, Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014-2018, 2020-2021 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2018 Nuvoton Technology corporation.
Copyright (c) 2014-2018 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014-2018 Broadcom Limited
Copyright (c) 2014-2017, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2014-2017 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014-2017 Pengutronix, Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2014-2017 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2017 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014-2017 Broadcom
Copyright (c) 2014-2016, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2016, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2016, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2014-2016, Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd Caesar Wang
<wxt@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2014-2016, Ericsson AB All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Jiri Pirko <jiri@mellanox.com>
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Frank Praznik <frank.praznik@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Andy Lutomirski
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Andrew Lutomirski
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015,2022 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015,2017,2022 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015,2017 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015, Imagination Technologies
Copyright (c) 2014-2015, 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Chaotian.Jing
<chaotian.jing@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Thomas Graf <tgraf@suug.ch>
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Takashi Sakamoto
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Scott Feldman <sfeldma@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author : Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 QLogic Corporation All rights reserved www.qlogic.com
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Tianping.Fang
<tianping.fang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 MediaTek Inc. Author: Hongzhou.Yang
<hongzhou.yang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Jiri Pirko <jiri@resnulli.us>
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014-2015 Andrew Lutomirski
Copyright (c) 2014- QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved www.qlogic.com
Copyright (c) 2014,2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014,2017, 2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014,2017 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014,2017 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014,2016 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014,2015, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014,2015 Ken Xue <Ken.Xue@amd.com> Jeff Wu <Jeff.Wu@amd.com>
Copyright (c) 2014,2015 AMD Corporation. Authors: Ken Xue <Ken.Xue@amd.com> Wu,
Jeff <Jeff.Wu@amd.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, The Linux foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014, The Linux Foundation, Laura Abbott.
Copyright (c) 2014, The Chromium OS Authors. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014, Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2014, Sony Mobile Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014, Sony Mobile Communications AB.
Copyright (c) 2014, ROCKCHIP CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014, QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014, Primary Data, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014, National Instruments Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014, Lorenzo Bianconi <lorenzo.bianconi83@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, Linaro Limited Author: Linus Walleij
<linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (c) 2014, Linaro Limited
Copyright (c) 2014, Intel Corporation. Author: Ramakrishna Pallala
<ramakrishna.pallala@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, Intel Corporation. Author: David Cohen
<david.a.cohen@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2014, Insignal Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014, Inforce Computing. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014, I2SE GmbH
Copyright (c) 2014, Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd Author: Tony Xie
<tony.xie@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd Author: Addy Ke
<addy.ke@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2014, Ericsson AB All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014, Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014, Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (c) 2014, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Authors: Iyappan
Subramanian <isubramanian@apm.com> Ravi Patel <rapatel@apm.com> Keyur Chudgar
<kchudgar@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Authors: Iyappan
Subramanian <isubramanian@apm.com> Keyur Chudgar <kchudgar@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Authors: Iyappan
Subramanian <isubramanian@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Tanmay Inamdar
<tinamdar@apm.com> Duc Dang <dhdang@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Rameshwar Prasad
Sahu <rsahu@apm.com> Shamal Winchurkar <swinchurkar@apm.com> Feng Kan
<fkan@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Rameshwar Prasad
Sahu <rsahu@apm.com> Loc Ho <lho@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Loc Ho
<lho@apm.com> Tuan Phan <tphan@apm.com> Suman Tripathi <stripathi@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Feng Kan
<fkan@apm.com>.
Copyright (c) 2014, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Feng Kan
<fkan@apm.com> Author: Hieu Le <hnle@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author:  Tin Huynh
<tnhuynh@apm.com>. Y Vo <yvo@apm.com>. Quan Nguyen <qnguyen@apm.com>.
Copyright (c) 2014, Adam Baker <linux@baker-net.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2014, 2015 FUKAUMI Naoki <naobsd@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014, 2015 Andy Yan <andy.yan@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 sigma star gmbh Author: Richard Weinberger <richard@nod.at>
Copyright (c) 2014 eGauge Systems LLC Contributed by David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@egauge.net>
Copyright (c) 2014 by Florian 'floe' Echtler <floe@butterbrot.org>
Copyright (c) 2014 by Chris J Arges <chris.j.arges at canonical.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Zhang, Keguang <keguang.zhang@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Yamaha Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014 Toradex AG.
Copyright (c) 2014 Tomasz Figa <tomasz.figa@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Tomasz Figa <t.figa@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 The Linux Foundation
Copyright (c) 2014 Takashi Sakamoto <o-takashi@sakamocchi.jp>
Copyright (c) 2014 Takashi Sakamoto
Copyright (c) 2014 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2014 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2014 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright (c) 2014 Shuah Khan <shuahkh@osg.samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Sebastian Reichel <sre@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2014 Scott Feldman <sfeldma@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Scott Feldman <sfeldma@cumulusnetworks.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Scott Alfter <scott@alfter.us>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Tomasz Figa
<t.figa@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Thomas Abraham
<thomas.ab@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Rahul Sharma
<rahul.sharma@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Naveen Krishna Ch
<naveenkrishna.ch@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Jaewon Kim
<jaewon02.kim@samsung.com> Author: Hyunhee Kim <hyunhee.kim@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Andrey Ryabinin
<ryabinin.a.a@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Andrey Ryabinin
<a.ryabinin@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Ajay Kumar
<ajaykumar.rs@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd Author: Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2014 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH
Copyright (c) 2014 STMicroelectonics Ltd. Author: Stuart Menefy
<stuart.menefy@st.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 SGI. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 Romain Perier <romain.perier@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. Hertz Wong <hertz.wong@rock-
chips.com> Herman Chen <herman.chen@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Jianqun xu
<jay.xu@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Rockchip Electronics Co. Ltd. Author: Jianqun <jay.xu@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Redpine Signals Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014 Red Hat, Inc., Mark Salter <msalter@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 Red Hat, Inc
Copyright (c) 2014 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 Raspberry Pi (Trading) Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014 QLogic Corporation All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2014 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014 Protonic Holland, David Jander
Copyright (c) 2014 Protonic Holland
Copyright (c) 2014 Philipp Zabel <p.zabel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2014 Petr Olivka
Copyright (c) 2014 Peter Meerwald <pmeerw@pmeerw.net>
Copyright (c) 2014 Patrik Jakobsson All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2014 Pali Rohár <pali@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2014 Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
Copyright (c) 2014 PLUMgrid, http://plumgrid.com
Copyright (c) 2014 Oracle Co., Daniel Kiper
Copyright (c) 2014 Open Grid Computing, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>.
Copyright (c) 2014 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright (c) 2014 Nokia Solutions and Networks.
Copyright (c) 2014 Nicira, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 MundoReader S.L. Matthias Brugger <matthias.bgg@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MundoReader S.L. Author: Matthias Brugger
<matthias.bgg@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MundoReader S.L. Author: Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (c) 2014 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 Mediatek Inc. Author: Shunli Wang <shunli.wang@mediatek.com>
Yingjoe Chen <yingjoe.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Xudong Chen <xudong.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Shunli Wang <shunli.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Joe.C <yingjoe.chen@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Jie Qiu <jie.qiu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: James Liao <jamesjj.liao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Howard Chen <ibanezchen@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Hongzhou.Yang
<hongzhou.yang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Flora Fu, MediaTek
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Flora Fu <flora.fu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc. Author: Eddie Huang <eddie.huang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014 Measurement-Specialties
Copyright (c) 2014 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Mathias Gottschlag <mgottschlag@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014 Martyn Welch
Copyright (c) 2014 Marek Szyprowski <m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Mahesh Bandewar <maheshb@google.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2014 Lukasz Majewski <l.majewski@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Lucas Stach <l.stach@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2014 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014 LSI Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014 Johan Hovold <johan@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2014 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Jiri Pirko <jiri@resnulli.us>
Copyright (c) 2014 Jeff Layton <jlayton@primarydata.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Janne Kanniainen <janne.kanniainen@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Jamie Lentin <jm@lentin.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2014 JD Cole <jd.cole@plantronics.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 Intel Corporation Author: Tomasz Bursztyka
<tomasz.bursztyka@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014 Intel Corp. Author: Denis Turischev <denis@compulab.co.il>
Copyright (c) 2014 Intel Corp
Copyright (c) 2014 Imagination Technologies Ltd. Author: Markos Chandras
<markos.chandras@imgtec.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Imagination Technologies Ltd. Author: Leonid Yegoshin
<Leonid.Yegoshin@imgtec.com> Author: Markos Chandras
<markos.chandras@imgtec.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014 Imagination Technologies Authors: Will Thomas, James Hartley
Copyright (c) 2014 Huawei Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014 Huang Bo <huangbobupt@163.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Huacai Chen <chenhc@lemote.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2014 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2014 Hannes Reinecke, SUSE Linux GmbH
Copyright (c) 2014 Hannes Reinecke <hare@suse.de> All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Guenter Roeck
Copyright (c) 2014 Google, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2014 Gabriele Mazzotta <gabriele.mzt@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Finn Thain
Copyright (c) 2014 FUKAUMI Naoki <naobsd@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Ezequiel Garcia
Copyright (c) 2014 Echo360 https://www.echo360.com Scott Kanowitz
<skanowitz@echo360.com> <scott.kanowitz@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 EMAC Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014 Dmitry Eremin-Solenikov
Copyright (c) 2014 Dialog Semiconductor
Copyright (c) 2014 David Jander, Protonic Holland
Copyright (c) 2014 David Herrmann <dh.herrmann@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2014 Cirrus Logic Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014 Christoph Hellwig. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (c) 2014 Christian Gmeiner <christian.gmeiner <at> gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Chelsio, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 Carlo Caione
Copyright (c) 2014 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014 Benjamin Tissoires <benjamin.tissoires@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Benjamin Tissoires	<benjamin.tissoires@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Arturo Borrero Gonzalez <arturo@debian.org>
Copyright (c) 2014 Applied Micro Circuits Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2014 Anna Schumaker <Anna.Schumaker@Netapp.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Andy Lutomirski and others
Copyright (c) 2014 Andy Lutomirski
Copyright (c) 2014 Andreas Noever <andreas.noever@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014 Actions Semi Inc. Author: David Liu <liuwei@actions-semi.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 Actions Semi Inc.
Copyright (c) 2014 ATRON electronic GmbH Author: Jan Safrata
<jan.nikitenko@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2014 - 2018, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 - 2018 ProfitBricks GmbH. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2014 - 2018 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2014 - 2017 Jes Sorensen <Jes.Sorensen@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013-2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2022, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2022, Arm Limited.
Copyright (c) 2013-2021, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2021, Arm Limited.
Copyright (c) 2013-2020, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2020, Mellanox Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2020, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2019, 2021 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2019 David Ahern <dsahern@gmail.com>. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2018, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2018, Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2018, Mellanox Technologies inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2018, 2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2018 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2013-2017, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2017, Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2013-2017 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013-2017 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2013-2016, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2016, Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2016, Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2016, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2016, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Jens Kuske <jenskuske@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Broadcom Author: Zi Shen Lim <zlim@broadcom.com>
Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Broadcom
Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Avago Technologies
Copyright (c) 2013-2015, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2015, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2015, Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2015, Mellanox Technologies, Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2015, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2013-2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2013-2015 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013-2015 PLUMgrid, http://plumgrid.com
Copyright (c) 2013-2015 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2013-2015 Imagination Technologies Author: Paul Burton
<paul.burton@mips.com>
Copyright (c) 2013-2014, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014, 2016-2018, 2021 The Linux Foundation. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014, 2016-2018 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Takashi Sakamoto
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Samsung Electronics, Co. Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Mateusz Krawczuk
<m.krawczuk@partner.samsung.com> Tomasz Figa <t.figa@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved. maintained
by openib-general@openib.org
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Intel Corporation Author: Matthew Wilcox
<matthew.r.wilcox@intel.com> Author: Ross Zwisler <ross.zwisler@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Intel Corp.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2013-2014 ARM Ltd
Copyright (c) 2013-15, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2013,2016 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013,2016 Lubomir Rintel All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013,2014 Uplogix, Inc. David Barksdale <dbarksdale@uplogix.com>
Copyright (c) 2013,2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Author: Marek Szyprowski <m.szyprowski@samsung.com> Author: Josh Cartwright
<joshc@codeaurora.org>
Copyright (c) 2013, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved. Author: Bjorn
Andersson <bjorn.andersson@sonymobile.com>
Copyright (c) 2013, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, Stephen Warren
Copyright (c) 2013, Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2013, Sony Mobile Communications AB.
Copyright (c) 2013, NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2013, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2013, Kenneth MacKay All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2013, Intel Corporation Authors: Huajun Li <huajun.li@intel.com>
Haicheng Li <haicheng.li@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2013, Intel Corporation Author: Lv Zheng <lv.zheng@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2013, Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2013, Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, Carlo Caione <carlo.caione@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Loc Ho
<lho@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2013, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Feng Kan
<fkan@apm.com> Author: Loc Ho <lho@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2013, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Feng Kan
<fkan@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2013, Alexander Graf <agraf@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2013, 2021 Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright (c) 2013, 2018, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, 2016-2017 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, 2015 The Linux Foundation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, 2014, 2015 Guenter Roeck
Copyright (c) 2013, 2014 Phillip Lougher <phillip@squashfs.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2013, 2014 Kenneth MacKay. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013, 2014 Guenter Roeck <linux@roeck-us.net>
Copyright (c) 2013 by Tobias Hoffmann
Copyright (c) 2013 by Robin Gareus <robin at gareus.org>
Copyright (c) 2013 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (c) 2013 by Jan Klötzke <jan@kloetzke.net>
Copyright (c) 2013 by Jakob Haufe <sur5r@sur5r.net>
Copyright (c) 2013 by Evgeny Plehov <Evgeny Plehov@ukr.net>
Copyright (c) 2013 by Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013 Vista Silicon S.L. Author: Javier Martin
<javier.martin@vista-silicon.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 U-MoBo Srl Pierluigi Passaro <p.passaro@u-mobo.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Trond Myklebust <Trond.Myklebust@netapp.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Tony Prisk <linux@prisktech.co.nz>
Copyright (c) 2013 Tomasz Figa <tomasz.figa@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Tomasz Figa <tomasz.figa at gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 The Linux Foundation
Copyright (c) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated Author: Joel Fernandes
<joelf@ti.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Texas Instruments Inc. David Griego,
<dagriego@biglakesoftware.com> Dale Farnsworth, <dale@farnsworth.org> Archit
Taneja, <archit@ti.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013 Synaptics Incorporated
Copyright (c) 2013 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2013 Stefan Achatz <erazor_de@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2013 Simon Wood
Copyright (c) 2013 Scott Feldman <sfeldma@cumulusnetworks.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com Author:
Andrzej Pietrasiewicz <andrzejtp2010@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Authors: Thomas Abraham
<thomas.ab@samsung.com> Chander Kashyap <k.chander@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Tarek Dakhran
<t.dakhran@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Padmavathi Venna
<padma.v@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Mateusz Krawczuk
<m.krawczuk@partner.samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Andrzej Hajda
<a.hajda@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2013 Red Hat, Inc. and Parallels Inc. All rights reserved.
Authors: David Chinner and Glauber Costa
Copyright (c) 2013 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013 Qualcomm Atheros Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013 Phillip Lougher <phillip@squashfs.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2013 Peter Meerwald <pmeerw@pmeerw.net>
Copyright (c) 2013 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2013 Ondrej Zary
Copyright (c) 2013 Olivier Scherler
Copyright (c) 2013 Oliver Schinagl <oliver@schinagl.nl>
Copyright (c) 2013 Noralf Tronnes
Copyright (c) 2013 Nikolay Aleksandrov <nikolay@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Nicira, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2013 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013 MundoReader S.L. Author: Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (c) 2013 Minchan Kim <minchan@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2013 Michael Stapelberg <michael@stapelberg.de>
Copyright (c) 2013 Martin Rusko
Copyright (c) 2013 Mariusz Bialonczyk <manio@skyboo.net>
Copyright (c) 2013 Ma Hajun <mahaijuns@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Lubomir Rintel All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013 Lubomir Rintel
Copyright (c) 2013 Linaro Ltd. Author: Thomas Abraham <thomas.ab@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2013 LG Electronics, Namhyung Kim <namhyung@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2013 Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright (c) 2013 Jiri Slaby
Copyright (c) 2013 Jiri Pirko <jiri@resnulli.us>
Copyright (c) 2013 Jie Liu. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013 Jens Kuske <jenskuske@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013 Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013 Hongbing Hu <huhb@lemote.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2013 Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (c) 2013 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (c) 2013 Hardkernel Co., Ltd. https://www.hardkernel.com
Copyright (c) 2013 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Guenter Roeck <linux@roeck-us.net>
Copyright (c) 2013 Guenter Roeck
Copyright (c) 2013 Greg Kroah-Hartman
Copyright (c) 2013 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2013 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (c) 2013 Federico Simoncelli All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013 Faraday Technology Corporation
Copyright (c) 2013 Eugene Krasnikov <k.eugene.e@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Eric Leblond <eric@regit.org>
Copyright (c) 2013 ELAN Microelectronics Corp.
Copyright (c) 2013 Dmitry Kasatkin <d.kasatkin@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Dialog Semiconductor
Copyright (c) 2013 David Herrmann <dh.herrmann@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Daniel Mack <zonque@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Coraid, Inc. 
Copyright (c) 2013 Coraid, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013 Colin Leitner <colin.leitner@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Cisco Systems. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013 Cisco Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2013 Christian Ohm
Copyright (c) 2013 Chanho Min <chanho.min@lge.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Carlo Caione 2012 Henrik Nordstrom
Copyright (c) 2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2013 Broadcom
Copyright (c) 2013 Anssi Hannula <anssi.hannula@iki.fi>
Copyright (c) 2013 Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
Copyright (c) 2013 Andrew Duggan <aduggan@synaptics.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Alexey Degtyarev <alexey@renatasystems.org>
Copyright (c) 2013 Alexander Aring <alex.aring@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 Alex Ling <kasimling@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 ARM/Linaro
Copyright (c) 2013 - 2020, Intel Corporation. Len Brown <len.brown@intel.com>
Rafael J. Wysocki <rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2013 - 2019 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2013 - 2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2013 - 2017 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2013 - 2015 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2013 - 2014 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
Copyright (c) 2012-2022, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2022, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2012-2022, Arm Limited.
Copyright (c) 2012-2021, Arm Limited.
Copyright (c) 2012-2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2020, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2020 Synaptics Incorporated
Copyright (c) 2012-2020 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (c) 2012-2020 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2019, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2019, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2019 Linux Foundation
Copyright (c) 2012-2019 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@linuxfoundation.org>
Copyright (c) 2012-2018, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2018 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2012-2017 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012-2017 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012-2017 ASPEED Technology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012-2016,2018-2019, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2016, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2016, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2012-2016 Zhang, Keguang <keguang.zhang@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012-2016 VMware, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2016 Synaptics Incorporated
Copyright (c) 2012-2016 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012-2016 Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
Copyright (c) 2012-2016 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012-2015,2017 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012-2015, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2015, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2012-2015, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2015, 2017, 2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2015 Synaptics Incorporated
Copyright (c) 2012-2015 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012-2014,2018,2020 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2014,2017 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2014, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2014, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2014, 2016-2021 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2014 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
Copyright (c) 2012-2014 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Andy Lutomirski <luto@amacapital.net>
Copyright (c) 2012-2013, Wind River Systems
Copyright (c) 2012-2013, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2013, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2012-2013, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2013, Intel Corporation Author: Mathias Nyman
<mathias.nyman@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Xilinx
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Vyatta Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Red Hat, Inc
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Hisilicon Limited.
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Google
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Dongjin Kim (tobetter@gmail.com)
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 David Herrmann <dh.herrmann@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2012, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012, TAOS Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2012, PetaLogix
Copyright (c) 2012, NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2012, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved. Author: Venu
Byravarasu <vbyravarasu@nvidia.com>
Copyright (c) 2012, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved. Author: Laxman
dewangan <ldewangan@nvidia.com>
Copyright (c) 2012, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012, Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2012, Michal Simek <monstr@monstr.eu>
Copyright (c) 2012, Metasoft s.c. Rafal Prylowski <prylowski@metasoft.pl>
Copyright (c) 2012, Jeff Layton <jlayton@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2012, Intel Corporation. Author: Liu, Jinsong
<jinsong.liu@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2012, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2012, Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2012, Code Aurora Forum. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012, Alexander Holler.
Copyright (c) 2012, 2019, Intel Corporation Authors: Mathias Nyman
<mathias.nyman@linux.intel.com> Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2012, 2014, 2015 Lantiq Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (c) 2012, 2013, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012, 2013 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (c) 2012 Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012 Vista Silicon S.L. Javier Martin <javier.martin@vista-
silicon.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Unixphere AB
Copyright (c) 2012 Trond Myklebust <Trond.Myklebust@netapp.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Tom Harwood
Copyright (c) 2012 Thorsten Nowak <thorsten.nowak@iis.fraunhofer.de>
Copyright (c) 2012 The Chromium OS Authors. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 The Chromium OS Authors <chromium-os-dev@chromium.org>
Author: Will Drewry <wad@chromium.org>
Copyright (c) 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc
Copyright (c) 2012 Taobao. Written by Tao Ma <boyu.mt@taobao.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2012 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2012 Stefan Achatz <erazor_de@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2012 Sony Mobile Communications AB
Copyright (c) 2012 Smith Micro Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012 Silicon Hive www.siliconhive.com.
Copyright (c) 2012 Savoir-faire Linux Inc. Vivien Didelot
<vivien.didelot@savoirfairelinux.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Samsung Electronics.
Copyright (c) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Joonyoung Shim
<jy0922.shim@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Jingoo Han
<jg1.han@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Inki Dae
<inki.dae@samsung.com> Author: Andrzej Hajda <a.hajda@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Inki Dae
<inki.dae@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd(http://www.samsung.com)
Copyright (c) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2012 ST Microelectronics Limited Shiraz Hashim
<shiraz.linux.kernel@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Red Hat, Inc. Author(s): Jeff Layton <jlayton@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 Red Hat, Inc
Copyright (c) 2012 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012 Pontus Fuchs <pontus.fuchs@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Peter De Wachter <pdewacht@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Pavel Machek <pavel@denx.de>
Copyright (c) 2012 Paolo Valente.
Copyright (c) 2012 Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
Copyright (c) 2012 Ondrej Zary <linux@rainbow-software.org>
Copyright (c) 2012 Ondrej Zary
Copyright (c) 2012 Nikolai Kondrashov
Copyright (c) 2012 Netapp, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 Neratec Solutions AG
Copyright (c) 2012 NeilBrown <neilb@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2012 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 Mellanox Technologies. - All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Copyright (c) 2012 Marvell Technology Ltd. Yunfan Zhang <yfzhang@marvell.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Marvell International Ltd. Wenzeng Chen<wzch@marvell.com>
Qiao Zhou <zhouqiao@marvell.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Marvell International Ltd. Author:   Jett Zhou
<jtzhou@marvell.com> Haojian Zhuang <haojian.zhuang@marvell.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Markus Franke <franke.m@sebakmt.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Lucas Stach <dev@lynxeye.de>
Copyright (c) 2012 Linux Foundation
Copyright (c) 2012 Linutronix GmbH
Copyright (c) 2012 Linaro Ltd https://www.linaro.org
Copyright (c) 2012 Linaro Ltd http://www.linaro.org
Copyright (c) 2012 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (c) 2012 Linaro : Daniel Lezcano <daniel.lezcano@linaro.org> (IBM)
Copyright (c) 2012 Katalix Systems Ltd
Copyright (c) 2012 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@mbnet.fi>
Copyright (c) 2012 Jiri Pirko <jpirko@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Jeff Layton <jlayton@redhat.com> All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 Intel Corporation Author: Liu, Jinsong
<jinsong.liu@intel.com> Author: Jiang, Yunhong <yunhong.jiang@intel.com> Author:
Ke, Liping <liping.ke@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Intel Corporation Author: Liu, Jinsong
<jinsong.liu@intel.com> Author: Jiang, Yunhong <yunhong.jiang@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2012 Henrik Rydberg
Copyright (c) 2012 Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (c) 2012 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (c) 2012 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Guenter Roeck <linux@roeck-us.net>
Copyright (c) 2012 Guenter Roeck
Copyright (c) 2012 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@linuxfoundation.org>
Copyright (c) 2012 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2012 Gilles Dartiguelongue, Thomas Richter
Copyright (c) 2012 GCT Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved. 
Copyright (c) 2012 Florian Westphal <fw@strlen.de>
Copyright (c) 2012 Extreme Engineering Solution, Inc. Author: Aaron Sierra
<asierra@xes-inc.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Eukréa Electromatique - ATMEL Author: Nicolas Royer
<nicolas@eukrea.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Ecole Nationale de l'Aviation Civile, France
Copyright (c) 2012 Dongjin Kim <tobetter@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Domintech Technology Co., Ltd
Copyright (c) 2012 Dmitry Eremin-Solenikov
Copyright (c) 2012 Dialog Semiconductor
Copyright (c) 2012 David Herrmann
Copyright (c) 2012 David Dillow <dave@thedillows.org>
Copyright (c) 2012 David Airlie <airlied@linux.ie>
Copyright (c) 2012 DENX Software Engineering, GmbH.
Copyright (c) 2012 Cypress Semiconductor Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2012 Coraid, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012 Code Aurora Forum. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 Cirrus Logic Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2012 Bryan Schumaker <bjschuma@netapp.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2012 Bosch Sensortec GmbH
Copyright (c) 2012 Bjørn Mork <bjorn@mork.no>
Copyright (c) 2012 Bernhard Seibold
Copyright (c) 2012 Benjamin Tissoires <benjamin.tissoires@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Bastien Nocera <hadess@hadess.net>
Copyright (c) 2012 BTicino S.p.A.
Copyright (c) 2012 Andreas Hübner
Copyright (c) 2012 Analog Devices, Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen
<lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright (c) 2012 Alexey Klimov <klimov.linux@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Alexander Potashev, Emcraft Systems, aspotashev@emcraft.com
Anton Protopopov, Emcraft Systems, antonp@emcraft.com
Copyright (c) 2012 Aeroflex Gaisler AB. Author: Andreas Larsson
<andreas@gaisler.com>
Copyright (c) 2012 Actions Semi Inc.
Copyright (c) 2012 - 2019 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 - 2018 Microchip Technology Inc., and its subsidiaries. All
rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 - 2018 Microchip Technology Inc., and its subsidiaries All
rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 - 2018 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 - 2017 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2012 - 2014 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011-2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011-2018, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011-2018 Magewell Electronics Co., Ltd. (Nanjing) All rights
reserved. Author: Yong Deng <yong.deng@magewell.com>
Copyright (c) 2011-2017, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011-2017, The Linux Foundation
Copyright (c) 2011-2017 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011-2016, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011-2016 Zhang, Keguang <keguang.zhang@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011-2016 Synaptics Incorporated
Copyright (c) 2011-2016 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011-2016 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Author: Andreas Herrmann
<herrmann.der.user@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011-2015,2017 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011-2015, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011-2015, 2017, 2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011-2015 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011-2015 Synaptics Incorporated
Copyright (c) 2011-2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2011-2015 PLUMgrid, http://plumgrid.com
Copyright (c) 2011-2015 Andrew Lutomirski
Copyright (c) 2011-2014,2016-2017 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011-2014,2016 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011-2014, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011-2014, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2011-2014, Intel Corporation Authors: Fenghua Yu
<fenghua.yu@intel.com>, H. Peter Anvin <hpa@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2011-2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2011-2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2011-2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2011-2014 PLUMgrid, http://plumgrid.com
Copyright (c) 2011-2014 Integrated Device Technology, Inc. Alexandre Bounine
<alexandre.bounine@idt.com>
Copyright (c) 2011-2014 Andy Lutomirski
Copyright (c) 2011-2013, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2011-2013 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011-2013 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2011-2013 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2011-2013 MiraMEMS Sensing Technology Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2011-2013 MaxLinear, Inc. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2011-2013 David Herrmann <dh.herrmann@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011-2013 Datera, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011-2013 Datera, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011-2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2011-2012,2017 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011-2012, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011-2012, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2011-2012, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved. Author: Laxman
dewangan <ldewangan@nvidia.com>
Copyright (c) 2011-2012, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Qualcomm Atheros Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Linaro Ltd. www.linaro.org
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011,2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2011,2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2011,2012, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011,2012 Toradex Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011,2012 Intel Corp.
Copyright (c) 2011, Tom Herbert <therbert@google.com>
Copyright (c) 2011, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011, Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011, TAOS Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2011, Sagrad Inc. Author: Solomon Peachy <speachy@sagrad.com>
Copyright (c) 2011, Sagrad Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011, ST-Ericsson Author: Dmitry Tarnyagin
<dmitry.tarnyagin@lockless.no>
Copyright (c) 2011, ST-Ericsson
Copyright (c) 2011, Novell Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011, NVIDIA Corporation. Author: Jin Park <jinyoungp@nvidia.com>
Copyright (c) 2011, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2011, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011, Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2011, Javier Lopez <jlopex@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011, Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2011, Intel Corporation Authors: Fenghua Yu
<fenghua.yu@intel.com>, H. Peter Anvin <hpa@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2011, Google, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011, Creative Technology Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2011, Code Aurora Forum. All rights reserved. Author: Dima Zavin
<dima@android.com>
Copyright (c) 2011, Code Aurora Forum. All rights reserved. Author: Brian
Swetland <swetland@google.com>
Copyright (c) 2011, Code Aurora Forum. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011, ARM Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2011, 2017 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2011, 2013 Stefan Kriwanek <dev@stefankriwanek.de>
Copyright (c) 2011, 2012, Qualcomm Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011, 2012, Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011, 2012 Synaptics Incorporated
Copyright (c) 2011, 2012 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2011, 2012 Anssi Hannula <anssi.hannula@iki.fi>
Copyright (c) 2011 by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (c) 2011 by Jarod Wilson <jarod@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Zhao Zhang <zhzhl555@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Zhang, Keguang <keguang.zhang@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Yu Ke ke.yu@intel.com
Copyright (c) 2011 Yu Ke <ke.yu@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Wolfson Microelectronics, plc
Copyright (c) 2011 Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011 Werner Almesberger <werner@almesberger.net>
Copyright (c) 2011 Volkswagen Group Electronic Research All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011 Vista Silicon S.L. Javier Martin <javier.martin@vista-
silicon.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Unixphere
Copyright (c) 2011 Tony Prisk <linux@prisktech.co.nz>
Copyright (c) 2011 The Chromium OS Authors. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (c) 2011 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2011 Stephen Hemminger <shemminger@vyatta.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Stefan Schmidt <stefan@datenfreihafen.org>
Copyright (c) 2011 Stefan Achatz <erazor_de@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2011 Samsung Electronics, Co. Ltd Contact: Tomasz Stanislawski
<t.stanislaws@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Samsung Electronics http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Kamil Debski,
<k.debski@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Authors: Inki Dae
<inki.dae@samsung.com> Joonyoung Shim <jy0922.shim@samsung.com> Seung-Woo Kim
<sw0312.kim@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Jingoo Han
<jg1.han@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Inki Dae
<inki.dae@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Authoer: Inki Dae
<inki.dae@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2011 ST Microelectronics (Alessandro Rubini, Davide Ciminaghi)
Copyright (c) 2011 ST Microelectronics (Alessandro Rubini)
Copyright (c) 2011 Richard Sharpe <realrichardsharpe@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011 Realtek Semiconductor Corp.
Copyright (c) 2011 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>, Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (c) 2011 Qualcomm Atheros, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2011 Pierre Tardy <tardyp@gmail.com> 
Copyright (c) 2011 Picochip Ltd., Jamie Iles
Copyright (c) 2011 Peter Korsgaard <jacmet@sunsite.dk>
Copyright (c) 2011 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2011 Ondrej Zary
Copyright (c) 2011 Neratec Solutions AG
Copyright (c) 2011 Mircea Gherzan <mgherzan@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011 Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (c) 2011 Marvell Semiconductors Inc. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (c) 2011 Marvell Semiconductors Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011 Mark Einon <mark.einon@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Manuel Stahl <manuel.stahl@iis.fraunhofer.de>
Copyright (c) 2011 Logitech (c)
Copyright (c) 2011 Logitech
Copyright (c) 2011 Konrad Rzeszutek Wilk <konrad.wilk@oracle.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@mbnet.fi>
Copyright (c) 2011 Jonathan Cameron
Copyright (c) 2011 Jon Smirl <jonsmirl@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 John Sung <penmount.touch@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (c) 2011 Johan Hovold	<jhovold@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Jiri Pirko <jpirko@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Jiri Kosina
Copyright (c) 2011 Jarod Wilson <jarod@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Jan Andersson <jan@gaisler.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Jamie Iles
Copyright (c) 2011 Hisilicon.
Copyright (c) 2011 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2011 Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (c) 2011 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Google, Inc. Author: Colin Cross <ccross@android.com> Gary
King <gking@nvidia.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Google, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011 Free Electrons
Copyright (c) 2011 Frederick van der Wyck <fvanderwyck@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Florian Westphal <fw@strlen.de>
Copyright (c) 2011 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (c) 2011 Extreme Engineering Solution, Inc. Author: Aaron Sierra
<asierra@xes-inc.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Ericsson AB.
Copyright (c) 2011 Eric Dumazet <eric.dumazet@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 David George <david.george@ska.ac.za>
Copyright (c) 2011 DENX Software Engineering GmbH
Copyright (c) 2011 Christoph Hellwig. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011 Christian Strobel <christian.strobel@iis.fraunhofer.de>
Copyright (c) 2011 Chris Schlund
Copyright (c) 2011 Chelsio Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011 Bryan Schumaker <bjschuma@netapp.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2011 Bosch Sensortec GmbH
Copyright (c) 2011 Bastian Blank <waldi@debian.org>
Copyright (c) 2011 Atmel Corporation Josh Wu, <josh.wu@atmel.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011 Anssi Hannula <anssi.hannula@iki.fi>
Copyright (c) 2011 Andy Lutomirski
Copyright (c) 2011 Andrei Warkentin <andreiw@motorola.com>
Copyright (c) 2011 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011 - 2017 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2011 - 2014 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2011 - 2014 PLUMgrid, http://plumgrid.com
Copyright (c) 2011 - 2013 Tatsunosuke Tobita, Wacom.
tobita.tatsunosuke@wacom.co.jp>
Copyright (c) 2011 - 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2010-2020, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2020, NVIDIA Corporation. Sascha Hauer
<s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2010-2020 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (c) 2010-2019, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010-2019, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2018 Nikolai Kondrashov
Copyright (c) 2010-2017 Pengutronix, Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2010-2017 Nikolai Kondrashov
Copyright (c) 2010-2017 Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2016, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010-2015,2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2015, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2015, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010-2015, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010-2015, 2018-2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2015 Steven Toth <stoth@kernellabs.com>
Copyright (c) 2010-2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2010-2015 Chelsio Communications, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010-2015 Allwinner Technology Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2010-2014, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2010-2014 Nikolai Kondrashov
Copyright (c) 2010-2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010-2014 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2013, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2013, NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2013, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010-2013 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010-2013 Micrel, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010-2013 Kontron Europe GmbH Author: Michael Brunner
<michael.brunner@kontron.com>
Copyright (c) 2010-2013 Benjamin Tissoires <benjamin.tissoires@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010-2012,2013, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2012, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2012, NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2012, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2012 by Nibble Max <nibble.max@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Stephane Chatty <chatty@enac.fr>
Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Savoir-faire Linux Inc. Jerome Oufella
<jerome.oufella@savoirfairelinux.com> Vivien Didelot
<vivien.didelot@savoirfairelinux.com>
Copyright (c) 2010-2012 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Kontron Europe GmbH Author: Michael Brunner
<michael.brunner@kontron.com>
Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Ecole Nationale de l'Aviation Civile, France
Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2012 Benjamin Tissoires <benjamin.tissoires@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010-2011,2014 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2011,2013-2015,2020 The Linux Foundation. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2011,2013-2015 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2011,2013 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2011, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2011, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010-2011, Jarod Wilson <jarod@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2010-2011, Code Aurora Forum. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2011, 2020-2021, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 by Samsung Electronics. Written by: Marek Szyprowski
<m.szyprowski@samsung.com> Michal Nazarewicz <mina86@mina86.com>
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 by Samsung Electronics.
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Linaro Ltd. www.linaro.org
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Jeremy Kerr <jeremy.kerr@canonical.com>
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 EIA Electronics, Pieter Beyens <pieter.beyens@eia.be>
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 EIA Electronics, Kurt Van Dijck <kurt.van.dijck@eia.be>
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 EIA Electronics
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Atheros Communications, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Andres Salomon <dilinger@queued.net>
Copyright (c) 2010-2010 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010-17: Borislav Petkov <bp@alien8.de> Advanced Micro Devices
Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010-015, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010,2015,2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010,2011 Code Aurora Forum. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010, by Texas Instruments
Copyright (c) 2010, Vladimir Fonov
Copyright (c) 2010, ST-Ericsson Author: Dmitry Tarnyagin
<dmitry.tarnyagin@lockless.no>
Copyright (c) 2010, ST-Ericsson Author: Ajitpal Singh
<ajitpal.singh@stericsson.com>
Copyright (c) 2010, ST-Ericsson Author: Ajitpal Singh
<ajitpal.singh@lockless.no>
Copyright (c) 2010, ST-Ericsson
Copyright (c) 2010, Octasic semiconductor.
Copyright (c) 2010, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010, NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (c) 2010, Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010, Google Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010, CompuLab, Ltd. Author: Mike Rapoport <mike@compulab.co.il>
Copyright (c) 2010, Code Aurora Forum. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010, Citrix
Copyright (c) 2010, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Tirumala R Marri
<tmarri@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2010, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Tanmay Inamdar
<tinamdar@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2010, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Author: Rupjyoti Sarmah
<rsarmah@apm.com>
Copyright (c) 2010, 2015 Mathieu Desnoyers <mathieu.desnoyers@efficios.com>
Copyright (c) 2010, 2014, 2022 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010, 2014 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010, 2014 Samsung Electronics http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2010, 2012-2013, NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010, 2012, 2018 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010, 2011, 2016 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010, 2011 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2010, 2011 Fabien Marteau <fabien.marteau@armadeus.com> Sponsored
by ARMadeus Systems
Copyright (c) 2010, 2011 Fabien Marteau <fabien.marteau@armadeus.com>
Copyright (c) 2010, 2011 Ericsson AB.
Copyright (c) 2010 by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (c) 2010 by Samsung Electronics Author: Michal Nazarewicz
<mina86@mina86.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 by Pavel Osnova <pvosnova@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (c) 2010 by Kyle Strickland Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (c) 2010 by Jarod Wilson <jarod@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 by Igor M. Liplianin <liplianin@me.by>
Copyright (c) 2010 by Herton Ronaldo Krzesinski <herton@mandriva.com.br>
Copyright (c) 2010 Xing Wei <weixing@hanwang.com.cn>
Copyright (c) 2010 Wind River Systems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010 Werner Fink, Jiri Slaby
Copyright (c) 2010 Wang Lei Author(s): Wang Lei (wang840925@gmail.com). All
Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010 Voltaire Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010 Vasily Khoruzhick <anarsoul@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Stephane Chatty <chatty@enac.fr>
Copyright (c) 2010 Stefan Achatz <erazor_de@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2010 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2010 Simon Wood <simon@mungewell.org>
Copyright (c) 2010 Silicon Hive www.siliconhive.com.
Copyright (c) 2010 Signal 11 Software
Copyright (c) 2010 Sergei Kolzun <x0r@dv-life.ru>
Copyright (c) 2010 Secret Lab Technologies, Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2010 Sebastian Smolorz <sesmo@gmx.net>
Copyright (c) 2010 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2010 Samsung Electronics, Co. Ltd Contact: Sylwester Nawrocki
<s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Samsung Electronics http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2010 Samsung Electronics Kyungmin Park <kyungmin.park@samsung.com>
Marek Szyprowski <m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2010 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2010 Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. Jaswinder Singh
<jassisinghbrar@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2010 ST-Ericsson SA
Copyright (c) 2010 SMSC
Copyright (c) 2010 Rising Tide Systems
Copyright (c) 2010 RidgeRun (todd.fischer@ridgerun.com)
Copyright (c) 2010 Richard Nauber <Richard.Nauber@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010 Red Hat Inc. Author : Dave Airlie <airlied@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>, Novell Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010 Phillip Lougher <phillip@squashfs.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2010 Pengutronix e.K. Author: Wolfram Sang <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2010 Pengutronix e.K.
Copyright (c) 2010 Paul Thomas <pthomas8589@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2010 Novell, Inc. Authors(s): Suresh Jayaraman
(sjayaraman@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2010 Novell, Inc. Author(s): Suresh Jayaraman <sjayaraman@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2010 Nokia Corporation Author: Dmitry Kasatkin
<dmitry.kasatkin@nokia.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Nikolai Kondrashov
Copyright (c) 2010 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010 Mika Westerberg
Copyright (c) 2010 Mika Laitio <lamikr@pilppa.org>
Copyright (c) 2010 Michael Poole <mdpoole@troilus.org>
Copyright (c) 2010 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2010 Marvell International Ltd. Author:   Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@marvell.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Marvell International Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010 Manuel Stahl <manuel.stahl@iis.fraunhofer.de>
Copyright (c) 2010 Linux-iSCSI.org
Copyright (c) 2010 LG Electronics Chan Jeong <chan.jeong@lge.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Kees Cook (kees.cook@canonical.com)
Copyright (c) 2010 Katalix Systems Ltd
Copyright (c) 2010 Johnathon Harris <jmharris@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 John Fastabend <john.r.fastabend@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Jiri Pirko <jpirko@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Jean-Francois Dagenais <dagenaisj@sonatest.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Jarod Wilson <jarod@wilsonet.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Janusz Krzysztofik
Copyright (c) 2010 Istvan Varga <istvan_v@mailbox.hu>
Copyright (c) 2010 Ira W. Snyder <iws@ovro.caltech.edu>
Copyright (c) 2010 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010 Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2010 Ignaz Forster <ignaz.forster@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2010 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2010 Henrik Rydberg <rydberg@euromail.se>
Copyright (c) 2010 Henrik Rydberg
Copyright (c) 2010 Hendrik Iben
Copyright (c) 2010 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Gregoire Baron <baronchon@n7mm.org>
Copyright (c) 2010 Grant Erickson <marathon96@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Google, Inc
Copyright (c) 2010 Franco Catrin <fcatrin@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Ericsson AB.
Copyright (c) 2010 Don Prince <dhprince.devel@yahoo.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2010 Dmitry Torokhov
Copyright (c) 2010 David Härdeman <david@hardeman.nu>
Copyright (c) 2010 David Chinner.
Copyright (c) 2010 Daniel Mack <daniel@caiaq.de>
Copyright (c) 2010 Daniel Kiper
Copyright (c) 2010 CompuLab Ltd. Mike Rapoport <mike@compulab.co.il>
Copyright (c) 2010 CompuLab Ltd Author: Denis Turischev <denis@compulab.co.il>
Copyright (c) 2010 CompuLab Ltd
Copyright (c) 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010 Cisco Systems, Inc
Copyright (c) 2010 Christoph Mair <christoph.mair@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Chase Douglas <chase.douglas@canonical.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Cavium Networks, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010 Canonical, Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2010 Bruno Randolf <br1@einfach.org>
Copyright (c) 2010 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2010 Ben Cropley <bcropley@internode.on.net>
Copyright (c) 2010 Baruch Siach <baruch@tkos.co.il>, Orex Computed Radiography
Copyright (c) 2010 Baruch Siach <baruch@tkos.co.il> Orex Computed Radiography
Copyright (c) 2010 Arrow Electronics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010 Arnaud Patard <arnaud.patard@rtp-net.org>
Copyright (c) 2010 Arnaud Patard <apatard@mandriva.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 Andres Salomon <dilinger@queued.net>
Copyright (c) 2010 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (c) 2010 Altera Corporation, San Jose, California, USA.
Copyright (c) 2010 Alexander Sverdlin <subaparts@yandex.ru>
Copyright (c) 2010 Alan Ott <alan@signal11.us>
Copyright (c) 2010 Adam Bennett
Copyright (c) 2010 ASIX Electronics Corporation
Copyright (c) 2010 - Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (c) 2010 - 2017 Intel Corporation. Len Brown <len.brown@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 - 2017 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010 - 2016, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010 - 2015, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2010 - 2012 Xilinx, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2010 - 2012 Goodix Technology. Author: andrew@goodix.com
Copyright (c) 2010 - 2011 Ping Cheng, Wacom. <pingc@wacom.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 - 2011 PetaLogix
Copyright (c) 2010 - 2011 Michal Simek <monstr@monstr.eu>
Copyright (c) 201 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2009/10 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2009-2022 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2021 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (c) 2009-2018, Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2017, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2016 Chelsio Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2014 Chelsio, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2013, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2013, NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2013, 2016-2018, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2013 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2013 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2009-2013 LSI Corporation
Copyright (c) 2009-2012,2014, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2012, NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2011, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2009-2011, Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2011, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2009-2011, Code Aurora Forum. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2011 Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009-2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2009-2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (c) 2009-2011 Manuel Lauss <manuel.lauss@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009-2011 Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009-2010, NVIDIA Corporation. Scott Peterson
<speterson@nvidia.com> Vijay Mali <vmali@nvidia.com>
Copyright (c) 2009-2010, NVIDIA Corporation. Scott Peterson
<speterson@nvidia.com>
Copyright (c) 2009-2010, Code Aurora Forum. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2010, Code Aurora Forum.
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Stephane Chatty <chatty@enac.fr>
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Stephane Chatty
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Pawel Osciak,
<pawel@osciak.com> Marek Szyprowski, <m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 NSN GmbH & Co KG <michael.lawnick.ext@nsn.com>
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 MontaVista Software, LLC.
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Micrel, Inc. Tristram Ha <Tristram.Ha@micrel.com>
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Marvell International Ltd. Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@marvell.com>
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Clemens Ladisch
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Chelsio, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Chelsio Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009-2010 Analog Devices, Inc. Author: Michael Hennerich
<michael.hennerich@analog.com>
Copyright (c) 2009-15 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009,2018 Daniel Mack <daniel@zonque.org>
Copyright (c) 2009,2010 Rising Tide, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009,2010 One Laptop per Child
Copyright (c) 2009,2010 Nicholas A. Bellinger <nab@linux-iscsi.org>
Copyright (c) 2009,2010 Linux-iSCSI.org
Copyright (c) 2009, Shen Feng<shen@cn.fujitsu.com>
Copyright (c) 2009, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2009, Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2009, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>
Copyright (c) 2009, Joao Ramos <joao.ramos@inov.pt> INESC Inovacao (INOV)
Copyright (c) 2009, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2009, Citrix Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009, Christoph Hellwig All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009, Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
Copyright (c) 2009, 2018 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009, 2014 Samsung Electronics http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (c) 2009, 2014 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2009, 2013 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (c) 2009, 2010 the Speakup Team
Copyright (c) 2009 by Rafael Ignacio Zurita <rizurita@yahoo.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 by Krzysztof Helt
Copyright (c) 2009 Zhang Le <r0bertz@gentoo.org>
Copyright (c) 2009 Yauhen Kharuzhy <jekhor@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009 Wu Zhangjin <wuzhangjin@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@grandegger.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Wind River Systems, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 03/02/13
<xavier.bru@bull.net>
Copyright (c) 2009 Wind River Systems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009 Wayne Roberts
Copyright (c) 2009 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA,
Copyright (c) 2009 Trond Myklebust <Trond.Myklebust@netapp.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Tomas Hanak
Copyright (c) 2009 Tobias Lorenz <tobias.lorenz@gmx.net>
Copyright (c) 2009 Tobias Doerffel <tobias.doerffel@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Tim Blechmann <tim@klingt.org>
Copyright (c) 2009 Tias Guns
Copyright (c) 2009 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de> Rainer Zimmermann
<mail@lightshed.de>
Copyright (c) 2009 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2009 SoftwareBitMaker.
Copyright (c) 2009 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2009 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009 Shen Feng <shen@cn.fujitsu.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Secret Lab Technologies, Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2009 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2009 Sebastian Kapfer <sebastian_kapfer@gmx.net>
Copyright (c) 2009 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2009 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Joonyoung Shim
<jy0922.shim@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Pawel Osciak,
<pawel@osciak.com> Marek Szyprowski, <m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Jaswinder Singh
<jassi.brar@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd Author: Jaswinder Singh
<jassisinghbrar@gmail.com> Ben Dooks.
Copyright (c) 2009 Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd Author: Jaswinder Singh
<jassisinghbrar@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd Author: Jaswinder Singh
<jassi.brar@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 STMicroelectronics Limited Author: Stuart Menefy
<stuart.menefy:st.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Rising Tide, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009 RidgeRun (todd.fischer@ridgerun.com)
Copyright (c) 2009 Richard Walmsley <richwalm@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Rafael J. Wysocki, Novell Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>, Novell Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009 QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009 Promwad Innovation Company Yauhen Kharuzhy
<yauhen.kharuzhy@promwad.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Philippe Vachon <philippe@cowpig.ca>
Copyright (c) 2009 Philipp Zabel
Copyright (c) 2009 Peter Holik
Copyright (c) 2009 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (c) 2009 Pavel Hofman <pavel.hofman@ivitera.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2009 Orex Computed Radiography Baruch Siach <baruch@tkos.co.il>
Copyright (c) 2009 Novell Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009 Nokia Corporation Roger Quadros <ext-roger.quadros@nokia.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Nokia Corporation Contact: Eduardo Valentin
<eduardo.valentin@nokia.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Nick Kossifidis <mickflemm@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Nicholas A. Bellinger <nab@linux-iscsi.org>
Copyright (c) 2009 MontaVista Software, Inc. Author: Anton Vorontsov
<avorontsov@ru.mvista.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009 Mika Westerberg <mika.westerberg@iki.fi>
Copyright (c) 2009 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (c) 2009 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2009 Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (c) 2009 Matthieu Crapet <mcrapet@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Marton Balint <cus@fazekas.hu>
Copyright (c) 2009 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Manuel Stahl <manuel.stahl@iis.fraunhofer.de>
Copyright (c) 2009 Manuel Lauss.
Copyright (c) 2009 Manuel Lauss <manuel.lauss@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Magnus Damm
Copyright (c) 2009 Linux-iSCSI.org
Copyright (c) 2009 LaCie
Copyright (c) 2009 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@mbnet.fi>
Copyright (c) 2009 Jonathan Cameron <jic23@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2009 Jonathan Cameron
Copyright (c) 2009 Jochen Friedrich <jochen@scram.de>
Copyright (c) 2009 Jiri Kosina
Copyright (c) 2009 Janine Kropp <nin@directfb.org>
Copyright (c) 2009 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2009 Intel Corp. Author: Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com> Vinodh
Gopal Erdinc Ozturk Deniz Karakoyunlu
Copyright (c) 2009 Intel Corp. Author: Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Imre Kaloz <kaloz@openwrt.org>
Copyright (c) 2009 IBM Corporation Author: Mimi Zohar <zohar@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Herton Ronaldo Krzesinski <herton@mandriva.com.br>
Copyright (c) 2009 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 HNR Consulting. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Gábor Stefanik <netrolller.3d@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2009 Gary Stein <LordCnidarian@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (c) 2009 Fabio Checconi, Luigi Rizzo, and Paolo Valente.
Copyright (c) 2009 Don Prince <dhprince.devel@yahoo.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2009 Dmitry Torokhov
Copyright (c) 2009 Dmitry Artamonow <mad_soft@inbox.ru>
Copyright (c) 2009 Diego Giagio <diego@giagio.com> All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009 Dialog Semiconductor Written by David Chen
<Dajun.chen@diasemi.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Devin Heitmueller <dheitmueller@kernellabs.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Denis Oliver Kropp <dok@directfb.org>
Copyright (c) 2009 Davide Ferri <d.ferri@zero11.it>
Copyright (c) 2009 David T. L. Wong <davidtlwong@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Daniel Ribeiro <drwyrm@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Daniel Mack <daniel@caiaq.de>
Copyright (c) 2009 Cyber Switching, Inc. Author: Chris Verges
<chrisv@cyberswitching.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Clemens Ladisch <clemens@ladisch.de>
Copyright (c) 2009 Bruno Prémont <bonbons@linux-vserver.org>
Copyright (c) 2009 Bob Copeland <me@bobcopeland.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009 Andy Walls <awalls@md.metrocast.net>
Copyright (c) 2009 Alexander Clouter <alex@digriz.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2009 Alberto Panizzo <maramaopercheseimorto@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Albert Herranz <albert_herranz@yahoo.es>
Copyright (c) 2009 Aava Mobile
Copyright (c) 2009 - 2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2009 - 2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2009 - 2012 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2009 - 2010, Intel Corporation and its suppliers.
Copyright (c) 2009 - 2010 Guo-Fu Tseng <cooldavid@cooldavid.org>
Copyright (c) 2008-2019, IBM Corporation 
Copyright (c) 2008-2015 Chelsio Communications, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2008-2014, The Linux foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008-2014 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008-2014 STMicroelectronics Limited
Copyright (c) 2008-2014 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2008-2013 Jonathan Cameron
Copyright (c) 2008-2013 Chelsio Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008-2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2008-2012 Novell Inc.
Copyright (c) 2008-2012 Chelsio Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008-2011, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2008-2011, Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Juliusz Chroboczek <jch@pps.jussieu.fr>
Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Jonathan Cameron
Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2008-2011 Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2008-2010, Dave Chinner All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008-2010, 2013 Dave Chinner All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Rafi Rubin
Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Henrik Rydberg
Copyright (c) 2008-2010 Arnaud Patard <apatard@mandriva.com>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009, NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2008-2009, NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (c) 2008-2009, MontaVista Software, Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Weongyo Jeong <weongyo@freebsd.org>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 USI Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Philipp Zabel
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 PMC-Sierra, Inc., All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 PIKA Technologies Sean MacLennan
<smaclennan@pikatech.com>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Novell Inc.
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 MontaVista Software, Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Marvell Semiconductor
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Jonathan Cameron <jic23@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Frederic Weisbecker <fweisbec@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Eurotech S.p.A. <info@eurotech.it> Michael Lawnick
<michael.lawnick.ext@nsn.com>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Eurotech S.p.A. <info@eurotech.it>
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Atheros Communications, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2008,2009,2010 Katalix Systems Ltd
Copyright (c) 2008,2009 NEC Software Tohoku, Ltd. Written by Takashi Sato
<t-sato@yk.jp.nec.com> Akira Fujita <a-fujita@rs.jp.nec.com>
Copyright (c) 2008,2009 Katalix Systems Ltd
Copyright (c) 2008,2009 Ilya Petrov <ilya.muromec@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008, VIA Technologies Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008, Tungsten Graphics, Inc. Cedar Park, TX., USA. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008, Tungsten Graphics Inc. Cedar Park, TX., USA. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008, Swedish Institute of Computer Science. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>
Copyright (c) 2008, John W. Linville <linville@tuxdriver.com>
Copyright (c) 2008, Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright (c) 2008, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2008, FUJITSU Limited
Copyright (c) 2008, Darius Augulis <augulis.darius@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008, Christoph Hellwig All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008, Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@web.de>
Copyright (c) 2008, 2018 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008, 2009, 2010 QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008, 2009 open80211s Ltd. Authors: Luis Carlos Cobo
<luisca@cozybit.com> Javier Cardona <javier@cozybit.com>
Copyright (c) 2008, 2009 open80211s Ltd. Author: Luis Carlos Cobo
<luisca@cozybit.com>
Copyright (c) 2008, 2009 open80211s Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2008, 2009 Tim Blechmann <tim@klingt.org>
Copyright (c) 2008, 2009 QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008, 2007, 2004-2005 Simtec Electronics
http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2008 guiming zhuo <gmzhuo@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 by: Ben Woodard <woodard@redhat.com> Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (c) 2008 by Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2008 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 2008 by David Brownell
Copyright (c) 2008 Zhang Le <r0bertz@gentoo.org>
Copyright (c) 2008 Zbynek Michl <Zbynek.Michl@seznam.cz>
Copyright (c) 2008 Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2008 Wei Ni <wni@nvidia.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Tomasz Grobelny <tomasz@grobelny.oswiecenia.net>
Copyright (c) 2008 Thomas Bogendoerfer <tsbogend@alpha.fanken.de>
Copyright (c) 2008 Texas Instruments
Copyright (c) 2008 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2008 Steven Toth <stoth@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (c) 2008 Spansion Inc. Frank Edelhaeuser <frank.edelhaeuser at
spansion.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>, <ben-linux@fluff.org>
Copyright (c) 2008 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2008 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>, <ben-
linux@fluff.org>
Copyright (c) 2008 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Copyright (c) 2008 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2008 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008 Silicon Graphics Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2008 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (c) 2008 Samuel Thibault
Copyright (c) 2008 STMicroelectronics Limited
Copyright (c) 2008 Ryan Mallon
Copyright (c) 2008 Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it>
Copyright (c) 2008 Richard Liu, STMicroelectronics <richard.liu@st.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Richard Lemon
Copyright (c) 2008 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (c) 2008 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2008 Ramax Lo <ramaxlo@gmail.com> Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk> SBZ
<sbz@spgui.org> Weibing <http://weibing.blogbus.com> Michel Pollet
<buserror@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Ramax Lo <ramaxlo@gmail.com> Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
SBZ <sbz@spgui.org> Weibing <http://weibing.blogbus.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 QUALCOMM USA, INC.
Copyright (c) 2008 QUALCOMM Incorporated.
Copyright (c) 2008 Philipp Zabel <philipp.zabel@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Philipp Zabel
Copyright (c) 2008 Peter W. Morreale <pmorreale@novell.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Peter Popovec
Copyright (c) 2008 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2008 PIKA Technologies Sean MacLennan <smaclennan@pikatech.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Nuovation System Designs, LLC Grant Erickson
<gerickson@nuovations.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies).
Copyright (c) 2008 Nissin Systems Co., Ltd., Yoshio Kashiwagi
Copyright (c) 2008 Neil Horman <nhorman@tuxdriver.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 NVIDIA Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008 MtekVision Co., Ltd. Kwangwoo Lee <kwlee@mtekvision.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 MontaVista Software, Inc. Anton Vorontsov
<avorontsov@ru.mvista.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2008 Mike Christie
Copyright (c) 2008 Michael Krufky <mkrufky@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (c) 2008 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (c) 2008 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2008 Matthieu Castet (castet.matthieu@free.fr)
Copyright (c) 2008 Marvell Semiconductor
Copyright (c) 2008 Marvell International Ltd. Eric Miao <eric.miao@marvell.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Martin Kebert
Copyright (c) 2008 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Marc Pignat <marc.pignat@hevs.ch>
Copyright (c) 2008 Magnus Damm
Copyright (c) 2008 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2008 Lukasz Lubojanski <lukasz@lubojanski.info>
Copyright (c) 2008 Loc Ho <lho@amcc.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Lev Babiev
Copyright (c) 2008 Kwangwoo Lee
Copyright (c) 2008 Jonathan Cameron
Copyright (c) 2008 Jiri Slaby <jirislaby@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Jiri Slaby
Copyright (c) 2008 Jaya Kumar
Copyright (c) 2008 Jaswinder Singh Rajput
Copyright (c) 2008 James Bottomley <James.Bottomley@HansenPartnership.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Isaku Yamahata <yamahata at valinux co jp> VA Linux Systems
Japan.
Copyright (c) 2008 Isaku Yamahata <yamahata at valinux co jp> VA Linux Systems
Japan K.K. pv_ops. Yaozu (Eddie) Dong <eddie.dong@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Isaku Yamahata <yamahata at valinux co jp> VA Linux Systems
Japan K.K. pv_ops.
Copyright (c) 2008 Isaku Yamahata <yamahata at valinux co jp> VA Linux Systems
Japan K.K.
Copyright (c) 2008 Intel Corporation Jesse Barnes <jesse.barnes@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Intel Corporation Author: Matthew Wilcox
<willy@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2008 Instituto Nokia de Tecnologia - INdT Contact: Eduardo
Valentin <eduardo.valentin@nokia.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2008 Henrik Rydberg (rydberg@euromail.se)
Copyright (c) 2008 Harris Corporation
Copyright (c) 2008 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Gerrit Renker <gerrit@erg.abdn.ac.uk>
Copyright (c) 2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2008 Fabio Belavenuto <belavenuto@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Eurotech S.p.A. <info@eurtech.it>
Copyright (c) 2008 Eurotech S.p.A. <info@eurotech.it>
Copyright (c) 2008 Erik Andrén
Copyright (c) 2008 Emcraft Systems. Sergei Poselenov, <sposelenov@emcraft.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Emcraft Systems Sergei Poselenov <sposelenov@emcraft.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Embedded Alley Solutions Inc
Copyright (c) 2008 Doug Thompson www.softwarebitmaker.com
Copyright (c) 2008 Dmitry Eremin-Solenikov
Copyright (c) 2008 Dmitry Baryshkov
Copyright (c) 2008 Dave Chinner All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008 Codehermit
Copyright (c) 2008 Cisco. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2008 Chia-I Wu
Copyright (c) 2008 CSE Semaphore Belgium. by Laurent Pinchart <laurentp@cse-
semaphore.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Bull S.A.S.
Copyright (c) 2008 Bernhard Weirich <bernhard.weirich@riedel.net>
Copyright (c) 2008 Atom Create Engineering Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2008 Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2008 Applied Micro Circuits Corporation. All rights reserved.
James Hsiao <jhsiao@amcc.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Anssi Hannula <anssi.hannula@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Andres Salomon <dilinger@debian.org>
Copyright (c) 2008 Alistair John Strachan <alistair@devzero.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2008 Alexey Klimov <klimov.linux@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Alek Du <alek.du@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Adrian-Ken Rueegsegger <ken@codelabs.ch>
Copyright (c) 2008 - 2012 QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007-8 Patrick Boettcher <pb@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (c) 2007-2019 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2007-2017 Nicira, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007-2016, Synaptics Incorporated
Copyright (c) 2007-2015 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2007-2014 Nicira, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007-2014 Jiri Kosina
Copyright (c) 2007-2014 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2007-2013 Nicira, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007-2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2007-2012 Nicira, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007-2011, Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007-2011 Nicira, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007-2011 Nicira Networks.
Copyright (c) 2007-2011 Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Vasily Khoruzhick
Copyright (c) 2007-2010 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007-2010 The Khronos Group Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Paul Mundt <lethal@linux-sh.org>
Copyright (c) 2007-2009, MontaVista Software, Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright (c) 2007-2009, Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@web.de>
Copyright (c) 2007-2009 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Philipp Zabel <philipp.zabel@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Oliver Neukum
Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Novell Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007-2009 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2007-2009	Jiri Kosina
Copyright (c) 2007-2008, Realsil Wlan
Copyright (c) 2007-2008, Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Tungsten Graphics, Inc., Cedar Park, TX., USA,
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Tungsten Graphics, Inc., Cedar Park, TX., USA
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Pavel Roskin <proski@gnu.org>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Oliver Neukum
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Michael Taylor <mike.taylor@apprion.com>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Matthew W. S. Bell <mentor@madwifi.org>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Luis Rodriguez <mcgrof@winlab.rutgers.edu>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Joern Engel <joern@purestorage.com>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Jiri Slaby <jirislaby@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Jim Paris <jim@jtan.com>Vivien Chappelier
<vivien.chappelier@free.fr>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Intel Corporation Jesse Barnes <jesse.barnes@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Claudio Nieder <private@claudio.ch>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Claudio Nieder
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Bruno Randolf <bruno@thinktube.com>
Copyright (c) 2007-2008 Atheros Communications, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007,2008 Dmitry Baryshkov
Copyright (c) 2007,2008	Dmitry Baryshkov
Copyright (c) 2007, XenSource Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007, MontaVista Software, Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright (c) 2007, Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2007, D G Murray
Copyright (c) 2007, 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2007, 2017 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007, 2013 Tejun Heo <tj@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2007, 2013 Tejun Heo <teheo@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2007, 2011 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2007, 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007, 2010, 2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007, 2010 Intel Corporation Jesse Barnes <jesse.barnes@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2007, 2010 George Joseph <george.joseph@fairview5.com>
Copyright (c) 2007, 2009, 2010 QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007, 2009 Anssi Hannula <anssi.hannula@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 Juerg Haefliger <juergh@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2007, 2008, 2009 QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007, 2008 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007, 2008 QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007, 2008 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2007, 2008 Mike Christie
Copyright (c) 2007, 2008 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007, 2004-2005 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2007 by Silicon Motion, Inc. (SMI)
Copyright (c) 2007 by Bill Gatliff <bgat@billgatliff.com>.
Copyright (c) 2007 allank
Copyright (c) 2007 Xceive Corporation
Copyright (c) 2007 Wouter Horre
Copyright (c) 2007 Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007 Vivek Goyal (vgoyal@in.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) 2007 University of Aberdeen, Scotland, UK
Copyright (c) 2007 Ujjwal Pande <ujjwal@kenati.com>, Kenati Technologies Pvt
Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2007 Ujjwal Pande <ujjwal@kenati.com>,
Copyright (c) 2007 Ujjwal Pande <ujjwal@kenati.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 TinCanTools David Anders <danders@amltd.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Thomas Bogendoerfer
Copyright (c) 2007 The University of Aberdeen, Scotland, UK
Copyright (c) 2007 Tejun Heo <teheo@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2007 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2007 Steven Toth <stoth@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (c) 2007 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2007 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks, <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2007 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Copyright (c) 2007 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2007 Sigmatel, Inc. Peter Hartley, <peter.hartley@sigmatel.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Shin-ya Okada sh_okada(at)d4.dion.ne.jp at
Copyright (c) 2007 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2007 Samuel Ortiz <samuel@sortiz.org>
Copyright (c) 2007 SUSE Linux Products GmbH
Copyright (c) 2007 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2007 Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it>
Copyright (c) 2007 Rik Snel <rsnel@cube.dyndns.org>
Copyright (c) 2007 Richard Purdie
Copyright (c) 2007 Red Hat, Inc. Author(s): Jeff Layton (jlayton@redhat.com)
Steve French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (c) 2007 Red Hat, Inc. Author(s): Jeff Layton (jlayton@redhat.com)
Copyright (c) 2007 Red Hat
Copyright (c) 2007 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>
Copyright (c) 2007 Philipp Zabel <philipp.zabel@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Philipp Zabel
Copyright (c) 2007 Paul Walmsley
Copyright (c) 2007 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2007 Patrick Boettcher <pb@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (c) 2007 Oracle Corporation. All rights reserved. Written by Martin K.
Petersen <martin.petersen@oracle.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Ondrej Zajicek <santiago@crfreenet.org>
Copyright (c) 2007 Olivier DANET <odanet@caramail.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Oliver Neukum
Copyright (c) 2007 Novell Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007 Nokia Siemens Networks - Mikko Herranen <mh1@iki.fi>
Copyright (c) 2007 Nokia Siemens Networks
Copyright (c) 2007 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu
Copyright (c) 2007 MontaVista, Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007 MontaVista Software, Inc. Anton Vorontsov
<avorontsov@ru.mvista.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007 Michel Ludwig (michel.ludwig@gmail.com)
Copyright (c) 2007 Michel Ludwig <michel.ludwig@gmail.com> 
Copyright (c) 2007 Michel Ludwig <michel.ludwig@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (c) 2007 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2007 Matthew Wilcox <matthew@wil.cx>
Copyright (c) 2007 Manuel Lauss <mano@roarinelk.homelinux.net>
Copyright (c) 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2007 Luis R. Rodriguez <mcgrof@winlab.rutgers.edu>
Copyright (c) 2007 Larry Finger <Larry.Finger@lwfinger.net>
Copyright (c) 2007 Kevin O'Connor <kevin@koconnor.net>
Copyright (c) 2007 Kevin Lo <kevlo@kevlo.org>
Copyright (c) 2007 Keir Fraser, XenSource Inc
Copyright (c) 2007 Kalle Valo <kalle.valo@iki.fi>
Copyright (c) 2007 Julian Scheel <julian@jusst.de>
Copyright (c) 2007 Jonathan Cameron <jic23@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2007 Jiri Slaby <jirislaby@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Jiri Kosina
Copyright (c) 2007 Jakob Bornecrantz <wallbraker@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2007 Intel Corp. Zhang Yanmin (yanmin.zhang@intel.com) Shaohua Li
(shaohua.li@intel.com)
Copyright (c) 2007 Ilyes Gouta.
Copyright (c) 2007 Igor Mammedov Author(s): Igor Mammedov (niallain@gmail.com)
Steve French (sfrench@us.ibm.com) Wang Lei (wang840925@gmail.com) David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (c) 2007 Igor Mammedov
Copyright (c) 2007 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2007 Hans J. Koch, Linutronix GmbH
Copyright (c) 2007 Guido Guenther <agx@sigxcpu.org>
Copyright (c) 2007 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007 Freescale Semiconductor
Copyright (c) 2007 Eurotech S.p.A. <info@eurotech.it>
Copyright (c) 2007 Eric Biederman (ebiederm@xmission.com)
Copyright (c) 2007 Dmitry Torokhov
Copyright (c) 2007 Dmitry Baryshkov
Copyright (c) 2007 Deep Root Systems, LLC
Copyright (c) 2007 Dave Airlie <airlied@linux.ie>
Copyright (c) 2007 Daniel Mack friendly supported by NI.
Copyright (c) 2007 Daniel Mack <daniel@caiaq.de> Karsten Wiese
<fzu@wemgehoertderstaat.de>
Copyright (c) 2007 Citrix Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007 Cisco Systems. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007 Christoph Hellwig <hch@lst.de>
Copyright (c) 2007 Byron Bradley
Copyright (c) 2007 Bruno Randolf <bruno@thinktube.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corporation
Copyright (c) 2007 Ben Dooks
Copyright (c) 2007 Barry Carter <Barry.Carter@robotfuzz.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Anton Vorontsov <avorontsov@ru.mvista.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 Andi Kleen (ak@suse.de)
Copyright (c) 2007 Alexey Starikovskiy <astarikovskiy@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2007 Alexey Starikovskiy
Copyright (c) 2007 - 2013 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2007 - 2012 QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2007 - 2009, Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@web.de>
Copyright (c) 2007 - 2008 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2007 - 2008 Jacob Jun Pan <jacob.jun.pan@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2007 - 1012 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2006-2022 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006-2017, CRYPTOGAMS by <appro@openssl.org> All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006-2016 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2006-2014 Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006-2014 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2006-2013 Jiri Kosina
Copyright (c) 2006-2012 Wilocity
Copyright (c) 2006-2012 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2006-2012 MStar Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006-2012 Jiri Kosina
Copyright (c) 2006-2011 Michael Hennerich <michael.hennerich@analog.com>
Copyright (c) 2006-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006-2010 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2006-2010 Jiri Kosina
Copyright (c) 2006-2010 BalaBit IT Ltd. Author: Balazs Scheidler, Krisztian
Kovacs
Copyright (c) 2006-2009, Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2006-2009 Vmware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006-2009 Victor Chukhantsev, Denis Grigoriev,
Copyright (c) 2006-2009 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006-2009 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright (c) 2006-2009 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben
Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk> Vincent Sanders <vince@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2006-2009 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben
Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2006-2009 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006-2009 Nick Kossifidis <mickflemm@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben
Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk> Vincent Sanders <vince@arm.linux.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben
Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 One Laptop Per Child Authors: Zephaniah E. Hull Andres
Salomon <dilinger@debian.org>
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Novell Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Nick Kossifidis <mickflemm@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Jiri Kosina
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Intel Corporation Jesse Barnes <jesse.barnes@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Scott Wood
<scottwood@freescale.com>
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Dominik Kuhlen <dkuhlen@gmx.net>
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Daniel Mack, Karsten Wiese
Copyright (c) 2006-2008 Chelsio, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006-2007, D G Murray.
Copyright (c) 2006-2007, 2011-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Tungsten Graphics, Inc., Cedar Park, TX., USA All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben
Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk> Vincent Sanders <vince@arm.linux.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben
Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Philipp Zabel
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Ondrej Zajicek <santiago@crfreenet.org>
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Oliver Bock (bock@tfh-berlin.de)
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Novell Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Nick Kossifidis <mickflemm@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Jorge Boncompte - DTI2 <jorge@dti2.net>
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Jiri Kosina
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 Freescale Semiconductor
Copyright (c) 2006-2007 David Brownell
Copyright (c) 2006,2007 The Regents of the University of Michigan. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006,2007 Daniel Mack, Tim Ruetz
Copyright (c) 2006,2007 Daniel Mack
Copyright (c) 2006, emlix, Sebastian Hess <shess@hessware.de>
Copyright (c) 2006, Rik Snel <rsnel@cube.dyndns.org>
Copyright (c) 2006, Michael Wu <flamingice@sourmilk.net>
Copyright (c) 2006, Kyle McMartin <kyle@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (c) 2006, Keir Fraser <keir@xensource.com>
Copyright (c) 2006, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2006, Ian Campbell, XenSource Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2006, Ian Campbell, XenSource Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006, Ian Campbell
Copyright (c) 2006, 2020 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (c) 2006, 2019 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006, 2018 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006, 2017 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 QLogic Corporation. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007, 2008 QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 IBM Corp. Josh Boyer <jwboyer@linux.vnet.ibm.com>,
David Gibson <dwg@au1.ibm.com>
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 IBM Corp. Josh Boyer <jwboyer@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 IBM Corp. Benjamin Herrenschmidt
<benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 IBM Corp.
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 Cisco Systems. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006, 2007 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006, 2006 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (c) 2006 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab--a.t--infradead.org> Ted
Walther <ted--a.t--enumera.com> John Sokol <sokol--a.t--videotechnology.com>
http://v4l.videotechnology.com/
Copyright (c) 2006 by Matthias König <mk@phasorlab.de>
Copyright (c) 2006 by Jing Min Zhao <zhaojingmin@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2006 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 2006 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Graeme Gregory
graeme.gregory@wolfsonmicro.com linux@wolfsonmicro.com
Copyright (c) 2006 Willem Duinker 
Copyright (c) 2006 Trond Myklebust <Trond.Myklebust@netapp.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Tower Technologies
Copyright (c) 2006 Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2006 The Regents of the University of Michigan. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006 Tensilica, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006 Tejun Heo <teheo@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2006 Steven Toth <stoth@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (c) 2006 Steven Rostedt
Copyright (c) 2006 Sphere Systems Ltd
Copyright (c) 2006 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2006 Simtec Electronics Vincent Sanders <vince@simtec.co.uk> Ben
Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2006 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk> Vincent
Sanders <vince@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2006 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2006 Simtec Electronics
Copyright (c) 2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc. by Greg Banks <gnb@melbourne.sgi.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Sam Leffler, Errno Consulting
Copyright (c) 2006 SUSE Linux Products GmbH
Copyright (c) 2006 Rik Snel <rsnel@cube.dyndns.org>
Copyright (c) 2006 Rick Koch <n1gp@hotmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar
Copyright (c) 2006 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (c) 2006 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>
Copyright (c) 2006 Pototskiy Akex <alex.pototskiy@gmail.com> Takashi Iwai
<tiwai@suse.de> Tobin Davis <tdavis@dsl-only.net>
Copyright (c) 2006 Philipp Zabel <philipp.zabel@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2006 PathScale, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006 Option Wireless n/v All rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006 Olivier DANET <odanet@caramail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Oliver Neukum	<oliver@neukum.name>
Copyright (c) 2006 Novell, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006 Nokia Corporation corgi_ts.c
Copyright (c) 2006 Nokia Corporation Imre Deak <imre.deak@nokia.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Moxa Technologies Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2006 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006 Michal Ludvig <michal@logix.cz>
Copyright (c) 2006 Michael Hanselmann <linux-kernel@hansmi.ch>
Copyright (c) 2006 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (c) 2006 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2006 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2006 Matt Callow
Copyright (c) 2006 Marek Vasut
Copyright (c) 2006 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2006 Luc Verhaegen (quirks list)
Copyright (c) 2006 Kyle McMartin <kyle@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (c) 2006 Jochen Voss <voss@seehuhn.de>
Copyright (c) 2006 Jiri Kosina
Copyright (c) 2006 Jiri Benc <jbenc@suse.cz>
Copyright (c) 2006 Jing Min Zhao <zhaojingmin@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2006 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2006 Ian Molton
Copyright (c) 2006 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2006 Herbert Valerio Riedel <hvr@gnu.org>
Copyright (c) 2006 Hartmut Birr (e9hack at gmail dot com)
Copyright (c) 2006 Guedez Clement <klem.dev@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2006 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006 Edgar Hucek <gimli@dark-green.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Dmitry Torokhov <dtor@mail.ru>
Copyright (c) 2006 Devicescape Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006 Dave Airlie <airlied@linux.ie>
Copyright (c) 2006 Damien Bergamini <damien.bergamini@free.fr>
Copyright (c) 2006 Cisco Systems. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006 Carsten Emde, Open Source Automation Development Lab
Copyright (c) 2006 Carlos Munoz <carlos@kenati.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Ben Dooks <ben-linux@fluff.org>
Copyright (c) 2006 Ben Dooks
Copyright (c) 2006 Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@conectiva.com.br>
Copyright (c) 2006 Anton Vorontsov <cbou@mail.ru>
Copyright (c) 2006 Anssi Hannula <anssi.hannula@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Andrzej Zaborowski <balrog@zabor.org>
Copyright (c) 2006 Andriy Skulysh <askulsyh@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 American Microsystems Limited David Anders
<danders@amltd.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 Alberto Mardegan
Copyright (c) 2006 ATRON electronic GmbH Author: Jan Nikitenko
<jan.nikitenko@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2006 ATI Technologies Inc.
Copyright (c) 2006 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2006 - 2021 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006 - 2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2006 - 2012 QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006 - 2009 Mellanox Technology Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006 - 2007 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2006	Jiri Benc <jbenc@suse.cz>
Copyright (c) 2005-7 The University of Waikato, Hamilton, New Zealand.
Copyright (c) 2005-7 Ian McDonald <ian.mcdonald@jandi.co.nz>
Copyright (c) 2005-6 The University of Waikato, Hamilton, New Zealand.
Copyright (c) 2005-6 Ian McDonald <ian.mcdonald@jandi.co.nz>
Copyright (c) 2005-2017 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2014 Brocade Communications Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2005-2011 Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2005-2009 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (c) 2005-2008, 2011-2013, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2008, 2011, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2008, 2010-2011, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2008 Stefano Brivio <stefano.brivio@polimi.it>
Copyright (c) 2005-2008 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben
Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2005-2008 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (c) 2005-2008 KeyStream Corp.
Copyright (c) 2005-2008 DLA Systems, David H. Lynch Jr. <dhlii@dlasys.net>
Copyright (c) 2005-2008 Christer Weinigel <christer@weinigel.se>
Copyright (c) 2005-2008 Chelsio, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2007, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2007, 2012-2013, Wind River Systems
Copyright (c) 2005-2007, 2010-2013, Wind River Systems
Copyright (c) 2005-2007, 2010-2011, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2007 Vladimir Lebedev <vladimir.p.lebedev@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2005-2007 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2005-2007 Stefano Brivio <stefano.brivio@polimi.it>
Copyright (c) 2005-2007 Stanislaw Gruszka <stf_xl@wp.pl>
Copyright (c) 2005-2007 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2005-2007 Network Appliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2007 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (c) 2005-2007 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2005-2007 Matthieu Castet <castet.matthieu@free.fr>
Copyright (c) 2005-2006, Christopher Clark
Copyright (c) 2005-2006, 2014, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2005-2006, 2013-2018 Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2005-2006, 2010-2014, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2006, 2010-2013, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2006, 2010-2011, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2006 Voltaire, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2006 Varma Electronics Oy
Copyright (c) 2005-2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2006 Network Appliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2006 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2005-2006 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005-2006 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2005-2006 DENX Software Engineering Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright (c) 2005,2006 Option Wireless Sweden AB
Copyright (c) 2005,2006 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2005,2006 Jim Cromie <jim.cromie@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2005, XenSource Ltd
Copyright (c) 2005, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005, Rusty Russell, IBM Corporation
Copyright (c) 2005, Nguyen Anh Quynh <aquynh@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2005, Keir Fraser <keir@xensource.com>
Copyright (c) 2005, Keir Fraser
Copyright (c) 2005, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2005, Devicescape Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2005, Christopher Clark
Copyright (c) 2005, Christian Limpach
Copyright (c) 2005, Bull S.A. Written by Pierre Peiffer
<pierre.peiffer@bull.net>
Copyright (c) 2005, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2005, 2010-2014, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005, 2010-2011, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005, 2010-2011, Wind River Systems
Copyright (c) 2005, 2007, 2008 Ian Molton
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006, 2008 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006, 2007 Cisco Systems. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006, 2007 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 Voltaire, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 Stefano Brivio <stefano.brivio@polimi.it>
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 PathScale, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 Danny van Dyk <kugelfang@gentoo.org>
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 Cisco Systems. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 Cisco Systems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 Anssi Hannula <anssi.hannula@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 Andreas Jaggi <andreas.jaggi@waterwave.ch>
Copyright (c) 2005, 2006 Andrea Bittau <a.bittau@cs.ucl.ac.uk>
Copyright (c) 2005 m5603x Linux Driver Project <m5602@x3ng.com.br>
Copyright (c) 2005 Voltaire, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 Voltaire Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 Vojtech Pavlik <vojtech@suse.cz>
Copyright (c) 2005 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 2005 Topspin Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 The University of Waikato, Hamilton, New Zealand.
Copyright (c) 2005 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 Stefano Brivio <stefano.brivio@polimi.it>
Copyright (c) 2005 Stefano Brivio <st3@riseup.net>
Copyright (c) 2005 Simtec Electronics http://www.simtec.co.uk/products/ Ben
Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2005 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 Sasha Khapyorsky <sashak@alsa-project.org> Takashi Iwai
<tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2005 Samsung Electronics Kyungmin Park <kyungmin.park@samsung.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 SDG Systems, LLC
Copyright (c) 2005 Roger Lucas <vt8231@hiddenengine.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2005 Rick Koch <n1gp@hotmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 Richard Purdie
Copyright (c) 2005 Rich Townsend <rhdt@bartol.udel.edu>
Copyright (c) 2005 Petr Stehlik of ARAnyM dev team
Copyright (c) 2005 Pete Zaitcev <zaitcev@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 PathScale, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 Palmsource, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2005 Oracle Corporation, Joel Becker <joel.becker@oracle.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 Open Grid Computing, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 Nick Sillik <n.sillik@temple.edu>
Copyright (c) 2005 Network Appliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2005 MontaVista Software
Copyright (c) 2005 Misha Zhilin <misha@epiphan.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 Milan Jurik, Petr Stehlik
Copyright (c) 2005 Michael Schmitz
Copyright (c) 2005 Michael Haboustak <mike-@cinci.rr.com> for Concept2, Inc
Copyright (c) 2005 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (c) 2005 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 Mellanox Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (c) 2005 Matthew Wilcox
Copyright (c) 2005 Martin Langer <martin-langer@gmx.de>, Stefano Brivio
<stefano.brivio@polimi.it> Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch> Danny van Dyk
<kugelfang@gentoo.org> Andreas Jaggi <andreas.jaggi@waterwave.ch>
Copyright (c) 2005 Martin Langer <martin-langer@gmx.de>,
Copyright (c) 2005 Martin Langer <martin-langer@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2005 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2005 Luben Tuikov <luben_tuikov@adaptec.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 Linas Vepstas <linas@linas.org>
Copyright (c) 2005 Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V.
Copyright (c) 2005 Kenan Esau <kenan.esau@conan.de>
Copyright (c) 2005 Keir Fraser
Copyright (c) 2005 John Lenz
Copyright (c) 2005 Joern Engel <joern@wh.fh-wedel.de>
Copyright (c) 2005 Jim Cromie <jim.cromie@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 James Simmons
Copyright (c) 2005 Intracom S.A. by Pantelis Antoniou <panto@intracom.gr>
Copyright (c) 2005 Intel Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 Intel Corp.
Copyright (c) 2005 Ian Molton <spyro@f2s.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 Ian Molton
Copyright (c) 2005 Ian McDonald <ian.mcdonald@jandi.co.nz>
Copyright (c) 2005 Ian McDonald <iam4@cs.waikato.ac.nz>
Copyright (c) 2005 IBM Corporation Joachim Fenkes <fenkes@de.ibm.com> Heiko J
Schick <schickhj@de.ibm.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2005 Henk Vergonet <Henk.Vergonet@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 Giorgio Padrin <giorgio@mandarinlogiq.org>
Copyright (c) 2005 Gene Collins
Copyright (c) 2005 Eugene Surovegin <ebs@ebshome.net>
Copyright (c) 2005 Enrik Berkhan <Enrik.Berkhan@akk.org>
Copyright (c) 2005 Embedded Alley Solutions, Inc. Matt Porter
<mporter@embeddedalley.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 Dmitry Torokhov
Copyright (c) 2005 Dirk Opfer
Copyright (c) 2005 David Shaohua Li <shaohua.li@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 David Kubicek	<dave@awk.cz>
Copyright (c) 2005 David Brownell
Copyright (c) 2005 Danny van Dyk <kugelfang@gentoo.org>
Copyright (c) 2005 Dan M. Smith, IBM Corporation
Copyright (c) 2005 Dag Arne Osvik <da@osvik.no>
Copyright (c) 2005 Cisco Systems. All rights reserved. Roland Dreier
<rolandd@cisco.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 Cisco Systems. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 Christoph Bartelmus <lirc@bartelmus.de>
Copyright (c) 2005 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp. benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (c) 2005 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (c) 2005 Ben Gardner <bgardner@wabtec.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 Aspen Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2005 Arnaud Patard <arnaud.patard@rtp-net.org>
Copyright (c) 2005 Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@mandriva.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@ghostprotocols.net>
Copyright (c) 2005 Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@conectiva.com.br>
Copyright (c) 2005 Aristeu Sergio Rozanski Filho <aris@cathedrallabs.org>
Copyright (c) 2005 Anton Altaparmakov
Copyright (c) 2005 Andriy Skulysh
Copyright (c) 2005 Andrey Panin <pazke@donpac.ru>
Copyright (c) 2005 Andreas Jaggi <andreas.jaggi@waterwave.ch>
Copyright (c) 2005 Andrea Merello <andrea.merello@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 Andrea Bittau <a.bittau@cs.ucl.ac.uk>
Copyright (c) 2005 Alexey Starikovskiy <alexey.y.starikovskiy@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 Alexander Wykes
Copyright (c) 2005 Adaptec, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005 ASPEED Technology Inc. Authors: Dave Airlie
<airlied@redhat.com> Michael Thayer <michael.thayer@oracle.com, Hans de Goede
<hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 ASPEED Technology Inc.
Copyright (c) 2005 - James Bottomley <James.Bottomley@steeleye.com>
Copyright (c) 2005 - 2008 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2005	Maarten Deprez <maartendeprez@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2004-2014 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2004-2012 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2004-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004-2011 Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004-2010 Atheros Communications Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004-2009 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2009 Reyk Floeter <reyk@openbsd.org>
Copyright (c) 2004-2009 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2004-2008, 2010-2014, Wind River Systems
Copyright (c) 2004-2008, 2010-2013, Wind River Systems
Copyright (c) 2004-2008 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk Ben
Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2004-2008 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2008 Reyk Floeter <reyk@openbsd.org>
Copyright (c) 2004-2008 LSI Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2004-2008 David Howells <dhowells@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2004-2008 Chelsio, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2008 Ben Dooks
Copyright (c) 2004-2007, Michael Wu <flamingice@sourmilk.net>
Copyright (c) 2004-2007, Matt Reimer <mreimer@vpop.net>
Copyright (c) 2004-2007, 2010-2013, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2007 Voltaire, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2007 Voltaire Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2007 Romain Beauxis <toots@rastageeks.org> Sam Skipsey
<aoanla@yahoo.com>
Copyright (c) 2004-2007 Reyk Floeter <reyk@openbsd.org>
Copyright (c) 2004-2007 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2006, K A Fraser
Copyright (c) 2004-2006, 2014-2017, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2004-2006, 2010-2013, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2006 Voltaire Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2006 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2004-2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc. Paul Jackson <pj@sgi.com>
Christoph Lameter <cl@linux.com> Paul Menage <menage@google.com> Hidetoshi Seto
<seto.hidetoshi@jp.fujitsu.com>
Copyright (c) 2004-2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004-2006 Richard Purdie
Copyright (c) 2004-2006 Macq Electronique SA.
Copyright (c) 2004-2006 Jean-Baptiste Note <jbnote@gmail.com>, et al.
Copyright (c) 2004-2006 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2004-2005, Wind River Systems
Copyright (c) 2004-2005, Szabolcs Gyurko <szabolcs.gyurko@tlt.hu>
Copyright (c) 2004-2005, Keir Fraser
Copyright (c) 2004-2005, K A Fraser
Copyright (c) 2004-2005, Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2004-2005, 2010-2011, Wind River Systems All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2005, 2010-2011, Wind River Systems
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 Thibaut VARENE <varenet@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 Stephane VOLTZ <svoltz@numericable.fr>
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben
Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 Richard Purdie
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 Atheros Communications, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004-2005 Anton Altaparmakov
Copyright (c) 2004,2006 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks, <ben@simtec.co.uk>
http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Copyright (c) 2004,2005,2006,2007,2008,2009 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (c) 2004,2005 Patrick McHardy, <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2004,2005 Arnaud Patard
Copyright (c) 2004, Steven Smith
Copyright (c) 2004, Luke Kenneth Casson Leighton <lkcl@lkcl.net>
Copyright (c) 2004, K A Fraser
Copyright (c) 2004, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2004, Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2004, Christian Limpach
Copyright (c) 2004, Andrew Warfield
Copyright (c) 2004, 2020 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004, 2018 IBM Corp. Dave Engebretsen engebret@us.ibm.com Steven
Royer seroyer@linux.vnet.ibm.com Adam Reznechek adreznec@linux.vnet.ibm.com
Bryant G. Ly <bryantly@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright (c) 2004, 2011 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004, 2008 Matt Mackall <mpm@selenic.com>
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005, Voltaire, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005, 2006 Voltaire, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 Zultys Technologies. Eugene Surovegin
<eugene.surovegin@zultys.com> or <ebs@ebshome.net>
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 Zultys Technologies Eugene Surovegin
<eugene.surovegin@zultys.com> or <ebs@ebshome.net>
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 Voltaire, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 Voltaire Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 Topspin Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 Topspin Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 Mellanox Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 Jeroen Vreeken (pe1rxq@amsat.org)
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 James Bottomley <James.Bottomley@SteelEye.com>
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 Infinicon Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004, 2005 Chris Pascoe
Copyright (c) 2004+ Evgeniy Polyakov <zbr@ioremap.net>
Copyright (c) 2004 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 2004 by Digigram <alsa@digigram.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 by Castet Matthieu <castet.matthieu@free.fr>
Copyright (c) 2004 Will Schmidt IBM Corporation. Nathan Lynch
nathanl@austin.ibm.com
Copyright (c) 2004 Voltaire, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004 Voltaire Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004 Vojtech Pavlik and Dan Streetman <ddstreet@ieee.org>
Copyright (c) 2004 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 2004 VIA Networking Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004 Utilitek Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004 Torrey Hoffman <thoffman@arnor.net>
Copyright (c) 2004 Topspin Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004 Topspin Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004 The Regents of the University of Michigan.
Copyright (c) 2004 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (c) 2004 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de> PeiSen Hou
<pshou@realtek.com.tw>
Copyright (c) 2004 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2004 TDF
Copyright (c) 2004 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Written by
Ben Dooks, <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2004 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2004 Simtec Electronics <linux@simtec.co.uk>
http://www.simtec.co.uk/products/SWLINUX/
Copyright (c) 2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc Russ Anderson <rja@sgi.com> Jesse
Barnes <jbarnes@sgi.com> Jack Steiner <steiner@sgi.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Shannon Holland <holland@loser.net>
Copyright (c) 2004 Rudolf Marek <r.marek@assembler.cz>
Copyright (c) 2004 Ron Lee (ron@debian.org)
Copyright (c) 2004 Richard Purdie
Copyright (c) 2004 Red Hat, Inc., James Morris <jmorris@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004 Ray Lehtiniemi
Copyright (c) 2004 Randy Dunlap
Copyright (c) 2004 Peter Nelson <rufus-kernel@hackish.org>
Copyright (c) 2004 Peter Gruber <nokos@gmx.net>
Copyright (c) 2004 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (c) 2004 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2004 Panagiotis Issaris	<panagiotis.issaris@mech.kuleuven.ac.be>
Copyright (c) 2004 Open Source Development Labs
Copyright (c) 2004 Oliver Neukum	<oliver@neukum.name>
Copyright (c) 2004 Nick Jones
Copyright (c) 2004 Nex Vision Guillaume GOURAT <guillaume.gourat@nexvision.tv>
Copyright (c) 2004 Nex Vision Guillaume GOURAT <guillaume.gourat@nexvision.fr>
Copyright (c) 2004 Michal Ludvig <michal@logix.cz>
Copyright (c) 2004 Mellanox Technologies Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004 Matthieu Castet <castet.matthieu@free.fr>
Copyright (c) 2004 Matthew Wilcox
Copyright (c) 2004 Mark M. Hoffman <mhoffman@lightlink.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 MIPS Inc Author: chris@mips.com
Copyright (c) 2004 Li Shaohua <shaohua.li@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Kouichi ONO <co2b@ceres.dti.ne.jp>
Copyright (c) 2004 Kiran Kumar Immidi <immidi_kiran@yahoo.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Kailang Yang <kailang@realtek.com.tw> PeiSen Hou
<pshou@realtek.com.tw> Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de> Jonathan Woithe
<jwoithe@just42.net>
Copyright (c) 2004 Justin Thiessen <jthiessen@penguincomputing.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>
Copyright (c) 2004 Jon Smirl <jonsmirl@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Joerg Albert <joerg.albert@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2004 Jocelyn Mayer 2011 Alexander Graf
Copyright (c) 2004 Jean-Luc Cooke <jlcooke@certainkey.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz> 2008 Pavel Hofman
<dustin@seznam.cz>
Copyright (c) 2004 Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 2004 Jan Steinhoff (cpad@jan-steinhoff . de)
Copyright (c) 2004 James Simmons <jsimmons@infradead.org>
Copyright (c) 2004 James Morris <jmorris@redhat.com>, Red Hat Inc. Alex Tomas
<alex@clusterfs.com> aka bzzz and Andreas Gruenbacher <agruen@suse.de>.
Copyright (c) 2004 James Morris <jmorris@redhat.com>, Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004 James Courtier-Dutton <James@superbug.demon.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2004 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004 Infinicon Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2004 Hewlett-Packard Company.
Copyright (c) 2004 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2004 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2004 Google, Inc. Brian Kuschak <bkuschak@yahoo.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Gerd Knorr
Copyright (c) 2004 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
Copyright (c) 2004 Fetron GmbH
Copyright (c) 2004 Evgeniy Polyakov <zbr@ioremap.net>
Copyright (c) 2004 Eugene Surovegin <ebs@ebshome.net>
Copyright (c) 2004 Erik Rigtorp <erkki@linux.nu> <erik@rigtorp.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Dmitry Torokhov <dtor@mail.ru>
Copyright (c) 2004 Dmitry Torokhov
Copyright (c) 2004 David Shaohua Li <shaohua.li@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Cisco Systems, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2004 Christoph Hellwig <hch@lst.de>
Copyright (c) 2004 Balint Seeber <n0_5p4m_p13453@hotmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2004 Arnaud Patard <arnaud.patard@rtp-net.org>
Copyright (c) 2004 Arnaud Patard
Copyright (c) 2004 Anton Altaparmakov
Copyright (c) 2004 Andras BALI <drewie@freemail.hu>
Copyright (c) 2004 Amstrad Plc
Copyright (c) 2004 Aaron Grothe ajgrothe@yahoo.com
Copyright (c) 2004 - 2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2004 - 2009 Paul Mundt
Copyright (c) 2003-2022, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2022, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved
Copyright (c) 2003-2019, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2018, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2018 LSI Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2003-2018 Broadcom Inc.
Copyright (c) 2003-2018 Avago Technologies.
Copyright (c) 2003-2017, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2003-2017 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2003-2017 Chelsio Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2017 Cavium, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2017 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2003-2016, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2003-2016 Chelsio Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2016 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2003-2016 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (c) 2003-2015, 2017 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2003-2015 Chelsio Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2015 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2003-2014 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2003-2014 Chelsio Communications, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2014 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (c) 2003-2013 Thomas Graf <tgraf@suug.ch>
Copyright (c) 2003-2013 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2003-2013 LSI Corporation
Copyright (c) 2003-2012 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2003-2012 Cavium Networks
Copyright (c) 2003-2012 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (c) 2003-2010 Cavium Networks (support@cavium.com). All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2010 Cavium Networks
Copyright (c) 2003-2009 Cavium Networks
Copyright (c) 2003-2008, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>
Copyright (c) 2003-2008 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Copyright (c) 2003-2008 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2003-2008 QLogic Corporation Author: Ron Mercer
<ron.mercer@qlogic.com>
Copyright (c) 2003-2008 Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>
Copyright (c) 2003-2008 Chelsio, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2008 Cavium Networks
Copyright (c) 2003-2007 Network Appliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2007 Cavium Networks
Copyright (c) 2003-2006, Marvell International Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (c) 2003-2006, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2003-2006, Cluster File Systems, Inc, info@clusterfs.com Written
by Alex Tomas <alex@clusterfs.com>
Copyright (c) 2003-2006, 2015-2016 Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2003-2006, 2014-2018, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2003-2006, 2014-2015, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2003-2006, 2013, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2003-2006 Simtec Electronics <linux@simtec.co.uk>
http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Copyright (c) 2003-2006 QLogic Corporation
Copyright (c) 2003-2005, K A Fraser
Copyright (c) 2003-2005, 2020 Code Mercenaries GmbH written by Christian Lucht
<lucht@codemercs.com> and Christoph Jung <jung@codemercs.com>
Copyright (c) 2003-2005 Zultys Technologies
Copyright (c) 2003-2005 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2003-2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2005 Peter Osterlund <petero2@telia.com>
Copyright (c) 2003-2005 Motorola
Copyright (c) 2003-2005 Matthew Wilcox <matthew@wil.cx>
Copyright (c) 2003-2005 IBM Corp. Dave Engebretsen engebret@us.ibm.com Santiago
Leon santil@us.ibm.com Hollis Blanchard <hollisb@us.ibm.com> Stephen Rothwell
Copyright (c) 2003-2004, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2004, MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2003-2004, M Williamson, K Fraser
Copyright (c) 2003-2004, Keir Fraser & Steve Hand
Copyright (c) 2003-2004, Keir Fraser
Copyright (c) 2003-2004, K A Fraser.
Copyright (c) 2003-2004, Jouni Malinen <jkmaline@cc.hut.fi>
Copyright (c) 2003-2004, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Simtec Electronics <linux@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul Miller <pmiller9@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 LSI Logic Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 IBM Corp.
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Greg Kroah-Hartman
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Fabrice Bellard
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Embedded Edge, LLC.
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Dmitry Torokhov
Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Christoph Hellwig All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003-2004	Joern Engel <joern@wh.fh-wedel.de>
Copyright (c) 2003,2008 IBM Corp. Dave Engebretsen engebret@us.ibm.com Santiago
Leon santil@us.ibm.com Hollis Blanchard <hollisb@us.ibm.com> Stephen Rothwell
Robert Jennings <rcjenn@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (c) 2003, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>
Copyright (c) 2003, Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2003, Dr Brian Gladman, Worcester, UK. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003, Dr Brian Gladman, Worcester, UK.
Copyright (c) 2003, B Dragovic
Copyright (c) 2003, 2020 ARM Limited All Rights Reserved
Copyright (c) 2003, 2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003, 2005 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 PathScale, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003, 2004, 2005 Francois Romieu <romieu@fr.zoreil.com>
Copyright (c) 2003, 2004 Zultys Technologies. Eugene Surovegin
<eugene.surovegin@zultys.com> or <ebs@ebshome.net>
Copyright (c) 2003, 2004 Zultys Technologies
Copyright (c) 2003, 2004 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2003, 2004 Jeff Garzik <jgarzik@pobox.com>
Copyright (c) 2003, 2004 Damien Bergamini <damien.bergamini@free.fr>. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003+ Evgeniy Polyakov <zbr@ioremap.net>
Copyright (c) 2003+ Evgeniy Polyakov <johnpol@2ka.mxt.ru>
Copyright (c) 2003 by Karsten Wiese <annabellesgarden@yahoo.de>
Copyright (c) 2003 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 2003 by Giuliano Pochini <pochini@shiny.it>
Copyright (c) 2003 by Digigram <alsa@digigram.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 by Clemens Ladisch <clemens@ladisch.de> All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003 by Clemens Ladisch <clemens@ladisch.de>
Copyright (c) 2003 Zultys Technologies. Eugene Surovegin
<eugene.surovegin@zultys.com> or <ebs@ebshome.net>
Copyright (c) 2003 Zinx Verituse <zinx@epicsol.org>
Copyright (c) 2003 Winfried Ritsch (IEM) Paul Davis Marcus Andersson Thomas
Charbonnel Remy Bruno remy.bruno@trinnov.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 Will Schmidt IBM Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2003 Vojtech Pavlik <vojtech@suse.cz>
Copyright (c) 2003 VIA Networking Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2003 Texas Instruments
Copyright (c) 2003 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2003 Stephen Hemminger <shemminger@osdl.org>
Copyright (c) 2003 Spirent Communications and Claus Gindhart
<claus.gindhart@kontron.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2003 Simtec Electronics <linux@simtec.co.uk>
http://www.simtec.co.uk/products/SWLINUX/
Copyright (c) 2003 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003 Ron Lee (ron@debian.org)
Copyright (c) 2003 Peter Osterlund <petero2@telia.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 Pavel Machek
Copyright (c) 2003 Patrick Mochel
Copyright (c) 2003 Patrick McHardy, <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (c) 2003 Open Source Development Lab
Copyright (c) 2003 Nils-Erik Mattsson, Joacim Haggmark, Magnus Erixzon
Copyright (c) 2003 Neil Brown <neilb@cse.unsw.edu.au>
Copyright (c) 2003 Michal Sojka, for high-speed iso transfers
Copyright (c) 2003 Matthias Brukner, Trajet Gmbh, Rebenring 33, 38106
Braunschweig, GERMANY
Copyright (c) 2003 Matthew Wilcox <matthew@wil.cx>
Copyright (c) 2003 Matt T. Yourst <yourst@yourst.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 Mark M. Hoffman <mhoffman@lightlink.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 Margit Schubert-While <margitsw@t-online.de>
Copyright (c) 2003 Manuel Estrada Sainz
Copyright (c) 2003 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2003 Kyle McMartin <kyle@debian.org>
Copyright (c) 2003 K.M. Liu <kmliu@sis.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 John Homppi (SCO, leave this notice here)
Copyright (c) 2003 Joerg Heckenbach Bret Wallach <bwallac1@san.rr.com> Orion Sky
Lawlor <olawlor@acm.org> (2/26/2000) Charl P. Botha <cpbotha@ieee.org> Claudio
Matsuoka <claudio@conectiva.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 Jim Hague (jim.hague@acm.org)
Copyright (c) 2003 James Morris <jmorris@intercode.com.au>
Copyright (c) 2003 Intracom S.A. by Pantelis Antoniou <panto@intracom.gr>
Copyright (c) 2003 International Business Machines, Corp.
Copyright (c) 2003 Ian Molton <spyro@f2s.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 IBM Corp. Dave Engebretsen engebret@us.ibm.com Santiago Leon
santil@us.ibm.com
Copyright (c) 2003 Hewlett-Packard Co Bjorn Helgaas <bjorn.helgaas@hp.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 Hans-Frieder Vogt <hfvogt@arcor.de>
Copyright (c) 2003 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (c) 2003 Gerd Knorr
Copyright (c) 2003 Felix Domke <tmbinc@elitedvb.net>
Copyright (c) 2003 Evgeniy Polyakov <zbr@ioremap.net>
Copyright (c) 2003 Erik Thyren <erth7411@student.uu.se>
Copyright (c) 2003 Eric Wong <eric@yhbt.net>
Copyright (c) 2003 Embedded Edge, LLC. Author: Embedded Edge, LLC.
dan@embeddededge.com or tim@embeddededge.com
Copyright (c) 2003 Dimitromanolakis Apostolos <apostol@cs.utoronto.ca>
Copyright (c) 2003 Digigram SA <alsa@digigram.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 David Glance <davidgsf@sourceforge.net> 2001 Juergen Stuber
<stuber@loria.fr>
Copyright (c) 2003 David Borowski <david575@golden.net>
Copyright (c) 2003 Dave Engebretsen Will Schmidt willschm@us.ibm.com
Copyright (c) 2003 Dave Engebretsen <engebret@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 Daniele Bellucci
Copyright (c) 2003 Christoph Hellwig <hch@lst.de>
Copyright (c) 2003 Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (c) 2003 Andi Kleen
Copyright (c) 2003 Adrian Sun (asun@darksunrising.com)
Copyright (c) 2003 Adaptec Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2003 ARM Limited.
Copyright (c) 2003 ARM Limited, All Rights Reserved
Copyright (c) 2003 ARM Limited All Rights Reserved
Copyright (c) 2003 ARM Limited
Copyright (c) 2003 - 2007 Francois Romieu <romieu@fr.zoreil.com>
Copyright (c) 2003 - 2006 Zultys Technologies
Copyright (c) 2003 - 2005 Chelsio Communications, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2003 - 2004, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002-5 Patrick Mochel
Copyright (c) 2002-3 Patrick Mochel
Copyright (c) 2002-3 Open Source Development Labs
Copyright (c) 2002-2017 Volkswagen Group Electronic Research All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002-2011 Ping Cheng <pingc@wacom.com>
Copyright (c) 2002-2010, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2002-2009 Clemens Ladisch All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002-2007 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright (c) 2002-2007 Volkswagen Group Electronic Research All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002-2007 Volkswagen Group Electronic Research
Copyright (c) 2002-2007 Sam Leffler, Errno Consulting All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002-2007 Anton Altaparmakov
Copyright (c) 2002-2006, K Fraser
Copyright (c) 2002-2005, Network Appliance, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002-2005, K A Fraser
Copyright (c) 2002-2005, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>
Copyright (c) 2002-2005 Sam Leffler, Errno Consulting
Copyright (c) 2002-2005 Richard Russon
Copyright (c) 2002-2005 Anton Altaparmakov
Copyright (c) 2002-2004, K A Fraser, B Dragovic
Copyright (c) 2002-2004, K A Fraser
Copyright (c) 2002-2004, Jouni Malinen <jkmaline@cc.hut.fi>
Copyright (c) 2002-2004, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>
Copyright (c) 2002-2004 by Karsten Wiese
Copyright (c) 2002-2004 MontaVista Software, Inc
Copyright (c) 2002-2004 Martin Langer <martin-langer@gmx.de>, Pilo Chambert
<pilo.c@wanadoo.fr>
Copyright (c) 2002-2004 Johann Deneux
Copyright (c) 2002-2004 Bryan W. Headley <bwheadley@earthlink.net>
Copyright (c) 2002-2004 Anton Altaparmakov
Copyright (c) 2002-2003, Jouni Malinen <jkmaline@cc.hut.fi>
Copyright (c) 2002-2003, Jouni Malinen <j@w1.fi>
Copyright (c) 2002-2003 TiVo Inc.
Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Patrick Mochel <mochel@osdl.org>
Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Patrick Mochel
Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Open Source Development Labs
Copyright (c) 2002-2003 Intel Corp.
Copyright (c) 2002-2003	Patrick Mochel
Copyright (c) 2002-2003	Open Source Development Labs
Copyright (c) 2002,2006 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 2002,2003,2004 Google, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002,2003 by Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2002,2003 Oliver Kurth
Copyright (c) 2002,2003 Alexander Malysh <amalysh@web.de>
Copyright (c) 2002, Trond Myklebust <trond.myklebust@fys.uio.no>
Copyright (c) 2002, Dr Brian Gladman <brg@gladman.me.uk>, Worcester, UK. All
rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002, 2007, 2018 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002, 2007 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002, 2006, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2013 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2005 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 Phillip
Lougher <phillip@squashfs.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 Phillip Lougher
<phillip@squashfs.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 Phillip Lougher
<phillip@squashfs.org.uk>
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2004 Paul Mundt <lethal@linux-sh.org>
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003 VIA Networking Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003 Tuukka Toivonen
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003 The Regents of the University of Michigan. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003 Philip Pokorny <ppokorny@penguincomputing.com>
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003 Gary Thomas (<gary@mlbassoc.com>
Copyright (c) 2002 by Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>, Clemens Ladisch
<clemens@ladisch.de>
Copyright (c) 2002 by Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2002 by Takashi Iwai <tiwai at suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2002 by Jeff Mahoney, <jeffm@suse.com>
Copyright (c) 2002 by David S. Miller <davem@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2002 by David Brownell
Copyright (c) 2002 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 2002 Vladimir Dergachev
Copyright (c) 2002 Thomas Gleixner <tgxl@linutronix.de>
Copyright (c) 2002 Thiemo Seufer
Copyright (c) 2002 Thibaut Varene <varenet@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (c) 2002 The Regents of the University of Michigan. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002 The Regents of the University of Michigan All Rights Reserved
Copyright (c) 2002 The Regents of the University of Michigan
Copyright (c) 2002 ShuChen <shuchen@realtek.com.tw>
Copyright (c) 2002 STMicroelectronics Ltd Stuart Menefy (stuart.menefy@st.com)
Copyright (c) 2002 Russell King
Copyright (c) 2002 Rob Miller (rob@inpharmatica . co . uk)
Copyright (c) 2002 Richard Zidlicky
Copyright (c) 2002 Richard Russon
Copyright (c) 2002 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002 Petko Manolov (petkan@users.sourceforge.net)
Copyright (c) 2002 Pete Zaitcev (zaitcev@yahoo.com)
Copyright (c) 2002 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (c) 2002 Paul Mundt <lethal@chaoticdreams.org>
Copyright (c) 2002 Paul Davis Marcus Andersson Thomas Charbonnel
Copyright (c) 2002 Patrick Mochel
Copyright (c) 2002 Nokia Corp.
Copyright (c) 2002 NEC Corp.
Copyright (c) 2002 Monta Vista Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2002 Marko Friedemann <mfr@bmx-chemnitz.de> 2004 Oliver Schwartz
<Oliver.Schwartz@gmx.de>, Steven Toth <steve@toth.demon.co.uk>, Franz Lehner
<franz@caos.at>, Ivan Hawkes <blackhawk@ivanhawkes.com> 2005 Dominic Cerquetti
<binary1230@yahoo.com> 2006 Adam Buchbinder <adam.buchbinder@gmail.com> 2007 Jan
Kratochvil <honza@jikos.cz> 2010 Christoph Fritz <chf.fritz@googlemail.com>
Copyright (c) 2002 Mark D. Studebaker <mdsxyz123@yahoo.com> Trent Piepho
<xyzzy@speakeasy.org>
Copyright (c) 2002 Mark D. Studebaker <mdsxyz123@yahoo.com> Aaron M. Marsh
<amarsh@sdf.lonestar.org>
Copyright (c) 2002 M. R. Brown
Copyright (c) 2002 Laurent Canet <canetl@esiee.fr>
Copyright (c) 2002 LSI Logic Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2002 Kimio Suganuma <k-suganuma@da.jp.nec.com>
Copyright (c) 2002 Kazunori Miyazawa <miyazawa@linux-ipv6.org>
Copyright (c) 2002 Johann Deneux
Copyright (c) 2002 Joe Burks (jburks@wavicle.org), Chris Cheney
(chris.cheney@gmail.com), Pavel Machek (pavel@ucw.cz), John Tyner
(jtyner@cs.ucr.edu), Monroe Williams (monroe@pobox.com)
Copyright (c) 2002 Jean-Francois Dive <jef@linuxbe.org>
Copyright (c) 2002 James Morris <jmorris@intercode.com.au> 2002 Adam J. Richter
<adam@yggdrasil.com> 2004 Jean-Luc Cooke <jlcooke@certainkey.com>
Copyright (c) 2002 James Morris <jmorris@intercode.com.au>
Copyright (c) 2002 International Business Machines, Corp.
Copyright (c) 2002 Intel Corp.
Copyright (c) 2002 Holger Waechtler <holger@convergence.de>
Copyright (c) 2002 Hewlett-Packard Co/CERN Sverre Jarp <Sverre.Jarp@cern.ch>
Copyright (c) 2002 Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
Copyright (c) 2002 Erich Focht <efocht@ess.nec.de>
Copyright (c) 2002 Eric Brower (ebrower@usa.net)
Copyright (c) 2002 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (c) 2002 Daniel Engstrom <5116@telia.com>
Copyright (c) 2002 Convergence GmbH
Copyright (c) 2002 Brian Bonnlander, Bill Soudan
Copyright (c) 2002 Adaptec Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2002 Adam J. Richter <adam@yggdrasil.com>
Copyright (c) 2002 ARM Limited.
Copyright (c) 2002 - 2011 Tony Finch <dot@dotat.at>
Copyright (c) 2002 - 2004 Karsten Wiese
Copyright (c) 2002 - 2003 Oliver Kurth
Copyright (c) 2001-3 Patrick Mochel
Copyright (c) 2001-2021, Huawei Tech. Co., Ltd. Author: chenjun
<chenjun14@huawei.com>
Copyright (c) 2001-2021, Huawei Tech. Co., Ltd.
Copyright (c) 2001-2015 Anton Altaparmakov and Tuxera Inc.
Copyright (c) 2001-2014 Anton Altaparmakov and Tuxera Inc.
Copyright (c) 2001-2013 ATTO Technology, Inc. mailto:linuxdrivers@attotech.com)
Copyright (c) 2001-2012 Anton Altaparmakov and Tuxera Inc.
Copyright (c) 2001-2012 Anton Altaparmakov
Copyright (c) 2001-2008 The Regents of the University of Michigan. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2001-2008 LSI Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2001-2007, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2001-2007, 2013-2014, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2001-2007, 2012-2019, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2001-2007 Jean Tourrilhes, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2001-2007 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de> All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2001-2007 Anton Altaparmakov
Copyright (c) 2001-2006 Anton Altaparmakov
Copyright (c) 2001-2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2001-2005 Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright (c) 2001-2005 Edouard TISSERANT <edouard.tisserant@wanadoo.fr>
Copyright (c) 2001-2005 Anton Altaparmakov
Copyright (c) 2001-2004 by David Brownell
Copyright (c) 2001-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2001-2004 Ben Fennema
Copyright (c) 2001-2004 Anton Altaparmakov
Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Patrick Mochel <mochel@osdl.org>
Copyright (c) 2001-2003 International Business Machines, Corp.
Copyright (c) 2001-2003 International Business Machines Corp.
Copyright (c) 2001-2003 Intel Corp.
Copyright (c) 2001-2002, SSH Communications Security Corp and Jouni Malinen
jkmaline@cc.hut.fi>
Copyright (c) 2001-2002, SSH Communications Security Corp and Jouni Malinen
j@w1.fi>
Copyright (c) 2001-2002, 2007 Johann Deneux <johann.deneux@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2001-2002 by David Brownell
Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2001-2002 PPC64 team, IBM Corp
Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Nokia, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2001-2002 International Business Machines, Corp.
Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Intel Corp.
Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Denis Oliver Kropp <dok@directfb.org> Sven Neumann
<neo@directfb.org>
Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Denis Oliver Kropp <dok@directfb.org>
Copyright (c) 2001-2002 Ben Fennema
Copyright (c) 2001-2001, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2001,2003 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (c) 2001,2002 Ryan Bradetich
Copyright (c) 2001,2002 Richard Russon
Copyright (c) 2001,2002 Patrick Mochel
Copyright (c) 2001,2002 Christer Weinigel <wingel@nano-system.com>
Copyright (c) 2001, Andy Ritger aritger@nvidia.com
Copyright (c) 2001, 2d3D, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2001, 2007 Johann Deneux <johann.deneux@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 2001, 2003, 2005, 2006, 2018 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2001, 2003, 2005, 2006 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2001, 2003 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002, 2003 Ladislav Michl <ladis@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002 by D-Link Corporation Written by Edward
Peng.<edward_peng@dlink.com.tw> Created 03-May-2001
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002 M. R. Brown <mrbrown@linuxdc.org>
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002 M. R. Brown <mrbrown@0xd6.org>
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002 Daniel Engstrom <5116@telia.com>
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002 Adaptec Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2001 by Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2001 by MontaVista Software, Inc. (Nico, your code rocks!)
Copyright (c) 2001 by Jay Schulist <jschlst@samba.org> 2002-2003 by Arnaldo
Carvalho de Melo <acme@conectiva.com.br>
Copyright (c) 2001 by Jay Schulist <jschlst@samba.org>
Copyright (c) 2001 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@suse.cz>
Copyright (c) 2001 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 2001 by David Brownell
Copyright (c) 2001 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 2001 Tony Luck <tony.luck@intel.com>
Copyright (c) 2001 The Regents of the University of Michigan. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2001 Richard Russon <ntfs@flatcap.org>
Copyright (c) 2001 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (c) 2001 Pete Zaitcev	<zaitcev@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2001 Paul Stewart
Copyright (c) 2001 Patrick Mochel <mochel@osdl.org>
Copyright (c) 2001 Nokia, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2001 Matthew Wilcox for Hewlett-Packard
Copyright (c) 2001 Matthew Wilcox for Hewlett Packard
Copyright (c) 2001 Matrox Graphics Inc.
Copyright (c) 2001 Martin Knoblauch <mkn@teraport.de, knobi@knobisoft.de>
Copyright (c) 2001 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (c) 2001 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2001 M. R. Brown <mrbrown@linuxdc.org>
Copyright (c) 2001 M. R. Brown <mrbrown@0xd6.org>
Copyright (c) 2001 La Monte H.P. Yarroll
Copyright (c) 2001 Jean-Fredric Clere, Nikolas Zimmermann, Georg Acher Mark
Cave-Ayland, Carlo E Prelz, Dick Streefland
Copyright (c) 2001 Intel Corp.
Copyright (c) 2001 IBM Corp.
Copyright (c) 2001 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (c) 2001 Haroldo Gamal <gamal@alternex.com.br>
Copyright (c) 2001 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (c) 2001 Frederic Lepied <flepied@mandrakesoft.com>
Copyright (c) 2001 Eric Brower (ebrower@usa.net)
Copyright (c) 2001 Denis Oliver Kropp <dok@convergence.de>
Copyright (c) 2001 David Paschal	<paschal@rcsis.com>
Copyright (c) 2001 Dave Engebretsen
Copyright (c) 2001 Daniel Engstrom <5116@telia.com>
Copyright (c) 2001 Dan Malek <dan@embeddedalley.com>
Copyright (c) 2001 Cliff Brake, Accelent Systems Inc.
Copyright (c) 2001 Cliff Brake <cbrake@accelent.com>
Copyright (c) 2001 Chris Atenasio <chris@crud.net>
Copyright (c) 2001 Brian S. Julin All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2001 Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (c) 2001 Arndt Schoenewald
Copyright (c) 2001 Adaptec Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2001 - 2008 Paul Mundt <lethal@linux-sh.org>
Copyright (c) 2000-2017, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2000-2010 Adaptec, Inc. 2010-2015 PMC-Sierra, Inc. (aacraid@pmc-
sierra.com) 2016-2017 Microsemi Corp. (aacraid@microsemi.com)
Copyright (c) 2000-2008 The Regents of the University of Michigan. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2008 LSI Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2008 LSI Corporation.
Copyright (c) 2000-2008 LSI Corporation mailto:DL-MPTFusionLinux@lsi.com)
Copyright (c) 2000-2007, 2014-2017 Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2000-2007 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2006, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2000-2006, 2018, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2000-2006, 2014-2019, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2000-2006, 2014-2018, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2000-2006, 2014-2016, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2000-2006, 2014-2015, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2000-2006, 2012-2016, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 2000-2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2000-2005 Vojtech Pavlik <vojtech@suse.cz>
Copyright (c) 2000-2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2000-2005 Anton Altaparmakov
Copyright (c) 2000-2004 by David Brownell
Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Vojtech Pavlik	<vojtech@ucw.cz>
Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2004 Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>, Takashi Iwai
<tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2000-2003,2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2003,2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2000-2003 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2003 Patrick Mochel
Copyright (c) 2000-2003 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org> Michal Kochanowicz
<mkochano@pld.org.pl> Christoph Bartelmus <lirc@bartelmus.de> Ulrich Mueller
<ulrich.mueller42@web.de> Markus Rechberger <mrechberger@gmail.com> Chaogui
Zhang <czhang1974@gmail.com> Henry Wong <henry@stuffedcow.net> Mark Schultz
<n9xmj@yahoo.com> Brian Rogers <brian_rogers@comcast.net> Oldrich Jedlicka
<oldium.pro@seznam.cz>
Copyright (c) 2000-2003 David McCullough <davidm@snapgear.com>
Copyright (c) 2000-2003 Adaptec Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2002,2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2002,2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Vojtech Pavlik <vojtech@ucw.cz>
Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Helge Deller, Matthew Wilcox
Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Ghozlane Toumi <gtoumi@laposte.net>
Copyright (c) 2000-2002 Adaptec Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2001,2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2001,2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2000-2001, 2010, Code Aurora Forum. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2001 Vojtech Pavlik <vojtech@ucw.cz>
Copyright (c) 2000-2001 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 2000-2001 Thomas Marteau <marteaut@esiee.fr>
Copyright (c) 2000-2001 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2001 D Jeff Dionne <jeff@uClinux.org>
Copyright (c) 2000-2001 ConnectCom Solutions, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2000-2001 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (c) 2000-2001 Adaptec Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000-2001	Lineo Inc. <www.lineo.com>
Copyright (c) 2000-2001	Lineo Canada Corp. <www.lineo.ca>
Copyright (c) 2000,2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000,2003 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000,2002-2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000,2002-2003,2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000,2002-2003,2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2000,2002,2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000,2002,2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2000,2001 Ghozlane Toumi <gtoumi@messel.emse.fr>
Copyright (c) 2000,1 Compaq Computer Corporation. (Author: Jamey Hicks)
Copyright (c) 2000, 2003 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (c) 2000, 2001 Anders Torger <torger@ludd.luth.se>
Copyright (c) 2000 by Zach Brown <zab@zabbo.net> Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2000 by Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>, Jaroslav Kysela
<perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 2000 by Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2000 by Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2000 by Abramo Bagnara <abramo@alsa-project.org>
Copyright (c) 2000 Xavier Debacker <debackex@esiee.fr>
Copyright (c) 2000 Vojtech Pavlik	<vojtech@suse.cz>
Copyright (c) 2000 Uros Bizjak <uros@kss-loka.si>
Copyright (c) 2000 The Regents of the University of Michigan. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000 The Regents of the University of Michigan
Copyright (c) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000 Sam Mosel <sam.mosel@computer.org>
Copyright (c) 2000 Randy Dunlap	<rdunlap@xenotime.net>
Copyright (c) 2000 RP Internet (www.rpi.net.au).
Copyright (c) 2000 Philip Edelbrock <phil@stimpy.netroedge.com>
Copyright (c) 2000 Peter Denison <peterd@pnd-pc.demon.co.uk>
Copyright (c) 2000 Nokia Research Center Tampere, FINLAND
Copyright (c) 2000 Nils Faerber
Copyright (c) 2000 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2000 MontaVista Software, Inc (source@mvista.com)
Copyright (c) 2000 Mike Corrigan <mikejc@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (c) 2000 Microsoft Corporation
Copyright (c) 2000 Matt Sottek <msottek@quiknet.com>
Copyright (c) 2000 Markus Demleitner <msdemlei@cl.uni-heidelberg.de>
Copyright (c) 2000 Mark Fletcher
Copyright (c) 2000 Justin Cormack
Copyright (c) 2000 Jorge Nerin <comandante@zaralinux.com>
Copyright (c) 2000 Jeroen B. Vreeken (pe1rxq@amsat.org)
Copyright (c) 2000 Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz> Tjeerd.Mulder
<Tjeerd.Mulder@fujitsu-siemens.com> 2002 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2000 Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz> 2002 Takashi Iwai
<tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2000 Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz> 2002 James Stafford
<jstafford@ampltd.com> 2003 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2000 Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 2000 James E. Blair <corvus@gnu.org>
Copyright (c) 2000 Guillaume Delvit Gerd Knorr Eric Sandeen
Copyright (c) 2000 Gerd Knorr Eric Sandeen (eric_sandeen@bigfoot.com) Steve
VanDeBogart (vandebo@uclink.berkeley.edu) Greg Alexander (galexand@acm.org)
Copyright (c) 2000 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@goldbach.in-berlin.de> Michal Kochanowicz
<mkochano@pld.org.pl> Christoph Bartelmus <lirc@bartelmus.de> Ulrich Mueller
<ulrich.mueller42@web.de> Stefan Jahn <stefan@lkcc.org> Jerome Brock
<jbrock@users.sourceforge.net> Thomas Reitmayr (treitmayr@yahoo.com) Mark Weaver
<mark@npsl.co.uk> Jarod Wilson <jarod@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2000 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>, Philip Edelbrock
<phil@netroedge.com>, Mark D. Studebaker <mdsxyz123@yahoo.com>, Dan Eaton
<dan.eaton@rocketlogix.com> and Stephen Rousset
<stephen.rousset@rocketlogix.com>
Copyright (c) 2000 Ericsson Radio Systems AB.
Copyright (c) 2000 Eric Sandeen <eric_sandeen@bigfoot.com>
Copyright (c) 2000 Eric Brower (ebrower@usa.net)
Copyright (c) 2000 Eric Brower <ebrower@usa.net>
Copyright (c) 2000 Daniel Egger <egger@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 2000 Clifford Wolf <clifford@clifford.at>
Copyright (c) 2000 Ani Joshi <ajoshi@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (c) 2000 Andreas Bach Aaen	<abach@stofanet.dk>
Copyright (c) 2000 Adaptec Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2000 ATecoM GmbH
Copyright (c) 2000 - 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2000 - 2014 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 1999-2021 Petko Manolov (petkan@nucleusys.com)
Copyright (c) 1999-2019, Mellanox Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1999-2016 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 1999-2015 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (c) 1999-2015 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright (c) 1999-2014 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (c) 1999-2013 Petko Manolov (petkan@nucleusys.com)
Copyright (c) 1999-2010 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (c) 1999-2009 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (c) 1999-2008 LSI Corporation mailto:DL-MPTFusionLinux@lsi.com)
Copyright (c) 1999-2008 LSI Corporation
Copyright (c) 1999-2008 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 1999-2007 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (c) 1999-2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 1999-2006 Mark W. McClelland
Copyright (c) 1999-2006 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (c) 1999-2005, Mellanox Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1999-2005 Igor Pavlov
Copyright (c) 1999-2004 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 1999-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 1999-2004 Geert Uytterhoeven <geert@linux-m68k.org>
Copyright (c) 1999-2004	Vojtech Pavlik <vojtech@suse.cz>
Copyright (c) 1999-2003 Vojtech Pavlik <vojtech@suse.cz>
Copyright (c) 1999-2002 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 1999-2002 Transmeta Corporation
Copyright (c) 1999-2002 Merlin Hughes <merlin@merlin.org>
Copyright (c) 1999-2002 Matthew Dharm (mdharm-usb@one-eyed-alien.net)
Copyright (c) 1999-2001 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 1999-2001 Paul Davis
Copyright (c) 1999-2001 Motorola, Inc.
Copyright (c) 1999-2001 Dan Malek <dan@embeddedalley.com>
Copyright (c) 1999-2000 by Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Takashi iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Philipp Rumpf <prumpf@tux.org>
Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Cisco, Inc.
Copyright (c) 1999,2001 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 1999, 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 1999 by Uros Bizjak <uros@kss-loka.si> Takashi Iwai
<tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 1999 by Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 1999 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>, Abramo Bagnara
<abramo@alsa-project.org>
Copyright (c) 1999 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz> Uros Bizjak <uros@kss-
loka.si>
Copyright (c) 1999 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 1999 Vojtech Pavlik <vojtech@suse.cz>
Copyright (c) 1999 Ulf Carlsson <ulfc@bun.falkenberg.se>
Copyright (c) 1999 The Puffin Group (David Kennedy and Alex deVries)
Copyright (c) 1999 The Puffin Group
Copyright (c) 1999 Terrehon Bowden <terrehon@pacbell.net> Bodo Bauer
<bb@ricochet.net>
Copyright (c) 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (c) 1999 Pavel Machek	<pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (c) 1999 Michael Gee (michael@linuxspecific.com)
Copyright (c) 1999 Michael Gee	<michael@linuxspecific.com>
Copyright (c) 1999 Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz> and others)
Copyright (c) 1999 Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>
Copyright (c) 1999 Johannes Erdfelt	<johannes@erdfelt.com>
Copyright (c) 1999 Jakub Jelinek (jakub@redhat.com)
Copyright (c) 1999 Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 1999 ITConsult-Pro Co. <info@itc.hu>
Copyright (c) 1999 IEM - Winfried Ritsch
Copyright (c) 1999 Grant Erickson <grant@lcse.umn.edu> 
Copyright (c) 1999 Grant Erickson <grant@lcse.umn.edu>
Copyright (c) 1999 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl> and Philip Edelbrock
<phil@netroedge.com> and Mark D. Studebaker <mdsxyz123@yahoo.com>
Copyright (c) 1999 Dan Malek (dmalek@jlc.net).
Copyright (c) 1999 Dan Malek (dmalek@jlc.net)
Copyright (c) 1999 Colin Van Dyke
Copyright (c) 1999 Cisco, Inc.
Copyright (c) 1999 Brian Gerst
Copyright (c) 1999 Armin Fuerst	<fuerst@in.tum.de>
Copyright (c) 1999 Andreas Gal
Copyright (c) 1999 Algorithmics Ltd
Copyright (c) 1999 Alexander Larsson <alex@cendio.se>
Copyright (c) 1999 Alex deVries <alex@onefishtwo.ca>
Copyright (c) 1999 Al Smith
Copyright (c) 1998-2007 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (c) 1998-2007 InnoSys Incorporated. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (c) 1998-2005 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 1998-2003 InnoSys Incorporated. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (c) 1998-2002 by Paul Davis <pbd@op.net>
Copyright (c) 1998-2001 by Frank van de Pol <fvdpol@coil.demon.nl> Jaroslav
Kysela <perex@perex.cz> Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 1998-2001 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Ilario Nardinocchi (nardinoc@CS.UniBO.IT)
Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Harald Koerfgen
Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Bruce Kalk <kall@compass.com>
Copyright (c) 1998-1999 by Frank van de Pol <fvdpol@coil.demon.nl> Jaroslav
Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 1998-1999 by Frank van de Pol <fvdpol@coil.demon.nl>
Copyright (c) 1998-1999 TiVo, Inc.
Copyright (c) 1998-1999 Ilario Nardinocchi (nardinoc@CS.UniBO.IT)
Copyright (c) 1998-1999 David Huggins-Daines.
Copyright (c) 1998-1999 David Huggins-Daines / Roman Zippel.
Copyright (c) 1998,1999 by Takashi Iwai
Copyright (c) 1998, 2000 Harald Koerfgen
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999, Rik van Riel <riel@nl.linux.org>
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999 Kyösti Mälkki <kmalkki@cc.hut.fi>
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999 Jens Axboe <axboe@image.dk>
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>, Kyösti Mälkki
<kmalkki@cc.hut.fi>
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl> and Philip Edelbrock
<phil@netroedge.com>
Copyright (c) 1998, 1999 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>
Copyright (c) 1998 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 1998 by Frank van de Pol <fvdpol@coil.demon.nl> Jaroslav Kysela
<perex@perex.cz> 2000 by Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (c) 1998 by Frank van de Pol <fvdpol@coil.demon.nl> Jaroslav Kysela
<perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 1998 by Frank van de Pol <fvdpol@coil.demon.nl>
Copyright (c) 1998 Michael Zucchi, All Rights Reserved
Copyright (c) 1998 Harald Koerfgen
Copyright (c) 1998 David Huggins-Daines.
Copyright (c) 1998 Daniel Pirkl <daniel.pirkl@email.cz> Charles University,
Faculty of Mathematics and Physics
Copyright (c) 1998 Corey Thomas (corey@world.std.com)
Copyright (c) 1998 Bas Vermeulen <bvermeul@blackstar.xs4all.nl>
Copyright (c) 1998 Andrea Arcangeli
Copyright (c) 1998 - 2003 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>, Philip Edelbrock
<phil@netroedge.com>, and Mark Studebaker <mdsxyz123@yahoo.com> Bernhard C.
Schrenk <clemy@clemy.org>
Copyright (c) 1998 - 2002 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>, Philip Edelbrock
<phil@netroedge.com>, and Mark D. Studebaker mdsxyz123@yahoo.com>
Copyright (c) 1998 - 2002 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>, Philip Edelbrock
<phil@netroedge.com>, Kyösti Mälkki <kmalkki@cc.hut.fi>, Mark D. Studebaker
<mdsxyz123@yahoo.com>
Copyright (c) 1998 - 2002 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>, Kyösti Mälkki
<kmalkki@cc.hut.fi>, Mark Studebaker <mdsxyz123@yahoo.com>, and Bob Dougherty
<bobd@stanford.edu>
Copyright (c) 1998 - 2002 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl> and Philip Edelbrock
<phil@netroedge.com>
Copyright (c) 1998 - 2001 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>, Philip Edelbrock
<phil@netroedge.com>, and Mark Studebaker <mdsxyz123@yahoo.com>
Copyright (c) 1997-2007 Jean Tourrilhes, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 1997-1999 by Paul Barton-Davis <pbd@op.net>
Copyright (c) 1997-1999 Doug Ledford
Copyright (c) 1997-1999 Carnegie Mellon University. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 1997--1999 Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>
Copyright (c) 1997,1998 Werner Koch (dd9jn)
Copyright (c) 1997, 1999 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (c) 1997, 1998, 2000, 2001 Justin T. Gibbs.
Copyright (c) 1997, 1998, 2000 Justin T. Gibbs. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1997, 1998, 2000 Justin T. Gibbs.
Copyright (c) 1997, 1998 Martin Mares <mj@atrey.karlin.mff.cuni.cz>
Copyright (c) 1997, 1998 Erik Andersen <andersee@debian.org>
Copyright (c) 1997 by Procom Technology,Inc. 2001-2003 by Arnaldo Carvalho de
Melo <acme@conectiva.com.br>
Copyright (c) 1997 by Procom Technology,Inc. 2001 by Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo
<acme@conectiva.com.br>
Copyright (c) 1997 by Procom Technology, Inc. 2001-2003 by Arnaldo Carvalho de
Melo <acme@conectiva.com.br>
Copyright (c) 1997 by Procom Technology, Inc. 2001, 2002 by Arnaldo Carvalho de
Melo <acme@conectiva.com.br>
Copyright (c) 1997 Nicolas Pitre <nico@cam.org>
Copyright (c) 1997 Justin T. Gibbs.
Copyright (c) 1997 Dan error_act (dmalek@jlc.net)
Copyright (c) 1997 Dan Malek (dmalek@jlc.net).
Copyright (c) 1997 Dan Malek (dmalek@jlc.net)
Copyright (c) 1997 Dan Malek <dmalek@jlc.net>
Copyright (c) 1997 Carnegie-Mellon University
Copyright (c) 1997 C. Scott Ananian <cananian@alumni.priceton.edu>
Copyright (c) 1997 Alan Cox
Copyright (c) 1996-2007, 2012-2016, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 1996-2006, 2013-2016, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 1996-2001 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (c) 1996-2001 Jonathan A. Buzzard (jonathan@buzzard.org.uk)
Copyright (c) 1996-2000 Russell King.
Copyright (c) 1996-2000 Jonathan A. Buzzard (jonathan@buzzard.org.uk)
Copyright (c) 1996, 2003 VIA Networking Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1996, 1998, 1999, 2004 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (c) 1996, 1997 David A. van Leeuwen.
Copyright (c) 1996 University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory
Copyright (c) 1996 Paul Mackerras <paulus@cs.anu.edu.au>
Copyright (c) 1996 John Shifflett, GeoLog Consulting. Russell King
Copyright (c) 1996 John Shifflett, GeoLog Consulting john@geolog.com
jshiffle@netcom.com
Copyright (c) 1996 Ingo Molnar
Copyright (c) 1996 Cort Dougan <cort@cs.nmt.edu> Rewritten for PReP
Copyright (c) 1996 Brian Buhrow <buhrow@lothlorien.nfbcal.org>
Copyright (c) 1995-2006, 2014, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 1995-2006, 2013-2014, Ericsson AB
Copyright (c) 1995-2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 1995-2001,2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (c) 1995-2000 Advanced System Products, Inc.
Copyright (c) 1995-1996 Gary Thomas <gdt@linuxppc.org>
Copyright (c) 1995,2001 Compaq Computer Corporation
Copyright (c) 1995, 1996 Daniel M. Eischen All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1995 Ted Lemon
Copyright (c) 1995 Markus Kuhn
Copyright (c) 1995 - 2000 Kungliga Tekniska Högskolan Royal Institute of
Technology, Stockholm, Sweden). All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1994-98 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>, 4Front Technologies
Copyright (c) 1994-2003 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>, Abramo Bagnara
<abramo@alsa-project.org>
Copyright (c) 1994-2002 Justin T. Gibbs.
Copyright (c) 1994-2001, 2004 Justin T. Gibbs.
Copyright (c) 1994-2001 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 1994-2001 Justin T. Gibbs.
Copyright (c) 1994-2000 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (c) 1994-2000 Justin T. Gibbs.
Copyright (c) 1994-1998, 2000, 2001 Justin T. Gibbs. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1994-1998 Initio Corporation All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1994-1998 Initio Corporation
Copyright (c) 1994-1997, 99, 2000, 06, 07 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (c) 1994, 95, 96, 97, 98, 2000, 01 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (c) 1994, 1995, 2000 Justin T. Gibbs. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1994 John Aycock The University of Calgary Department of Computer
Science.
Copyright (c) 1994 Alan Modra
Copyright (c) 1994 - 1997, 99, 2000, 06, 07 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (c) 1993-2020, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1993-2017, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1993-2014, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1993, 2000 Joerg Reuter
Copyright (c) 1992 Orest Zborowski
Copyright (c) 1991,1992,1995 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (c) 1991, 1993 The Regents of the University of California. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 1989 Regents of the University of California. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 1987-1999 Carnegie Mellon University All Rights Reserved
Copyright (c) 1987-1999 Carnegie Mellon University
Copyright (c) 1985, 1986 The Regents of the University of California. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) 1982, 1986 Regents of the University of California. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (c) (2005-2007) Imagination Technologies Limited.
Copyright (c) <2017> Linaro Ltd. https://www.linaro.org
Copyright (c) <2017> HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd. http://www.hisilicon.com
Copyright (c) <2013-2017> Linaro Ltd. https://www.linaro.org
Copyright (c) <2013-2014> Linaro Ltd. https://www.linaro.org
Copyright (c) <2011-2014> HiSilicon Technologies Co., Ltd.
http://www.hisilicon.com
Copyright (ST) 2012 Vipin Kumar (vipin.kumar@st.com)
Copyright (ST) 2012 Rajeev Kumar (rajeevkumar.linux@gmail.com)
Copyright (ST) 2011 Vipin Kumar (vipin.kumar@st.com)
Copyright (C): 2016 Nicolai Stange 
Copyright (C)2015-2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C)2009 Igor M. Liplianin (liplianin@me.by)
Copyright (C)2007,2008 USAGI/WIDE Project YOSHIFUJI Hideaki <yoshfuji@linux-
ipv6.org>
Copyright (C)2007 USAGI/WIDE Project, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C)2007 USAGI/WIDE Project
Copyright (C)2006-2007 USAGI/WIDE Project
Copyright (C)2006 USAGI/WIDE Project
Copyright (C)2004-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C)2004 USAGI/WIDE Project
Copyright (C)2003-2006 USAGI/WIDE Project
Copyright (C)2003-2006 Helsinki University of Technology
Copyright (C)2003,2004 USAGI/WIDE Project
Copyright (C)2003 USAGI/WIDE Project
Copyright (C)2002 USAGI/WIDE Project
Copyright (C), 2008-2021, OPPO Mobile Comm Corp., Ltd. https://www.oppo.com/
Copyright (C) xxxx the Anonymous
Copyright (C) linwizard.sourceforge.net Author: Angelo Arrifano
<miknix@gmail.com> Imre Deak <imre.deak@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) by Todd E. Johnson (mtouchusb.c)
Copyright (C) by Paul Barton-Davis 1998-1999
Copyright (C) by Kai Svahn <kai.svahn@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) by Hannu Savolainen 1993-1997
Copyright (C) [2020] Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) Zhang Yanmin (yanmin.zhang@intel.com)
Copyright (C) XLR8, Inc. 1994-2000
Copyright (C) William M. Brack
Copyright (C) Vijay Chander <vijay@engr.sgi.com>
Copyright (C) Tomi Manninen OH2BNS (oh2bns@sral.fi)
Copyright (C) Tom Long Nguyen (tom.l.nguyen@intel.com)
Copyright (C) Tino Reichardt, 2012
Copyright (C) Theodore Kilgore.
Copyright (C) The Weather Channel, Inc. 2002. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) The Asahi Linux Contributors
Copyright (C) Terry Dawson VK2KTJ (terry@animats.net)
Copyright (C) Symbol Technologies.
Copyright (C) Sylver Bruneau <sylver.bruneau@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) Sunplus Technology Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) Sunplus Technology Co.
Copyright (C) Sunplus Tech/Tibbo Tech. Author: Dvorkin Dmitry
<dvorkin@tibbo.com>
Copyright (C) Sunplus Tech / Tibbo Tech. Author: Dvorkin Dmitry
<dvorkin@tibbo.com>
Copyright (C) Sunplus Tech / Tibbo Tech.
Copyright (C) Sunplus Co., Ltd. 2021
Copyright (C) Sunplus Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) Sun Microsystems 2008
Copyright (C) Steven Whitehouse GW7RRM (stevew@acm.org)
Copyright (C) Steven Whitehouse 2003/06/24 Louis D. Langholtz <ldl@aros.net>
2004/02/19 Paul Clements
Copyright (C) Stefan Hajnoczi <stefanha@redhat.com>, 2015
Copyright (C) Srinivasa Thirumalachar <sprasad@engr.sgi.com>
Copyright (C) Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications 2010
Copyright (C) Sistina Software, Inc. 1997-2003 All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) Shérab <Sebastien.Hinderer@ens-lyon.org>
Copyright (C) Shaohua Li (shaohua.li@intel.com)
Copyright (C) Shaohua Li <shaohua.li@intel.com>
Copyright (C) Shailabh Nagar, IBM Corp. 2006
Copyright (C) Shailabh Nagar, IBM Corp. 2005
Copyright (C) Semihalf 2009
Copyright (C) Secret Lab Technologies Ltd. 2006. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) Secret Lab Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) Samuel Thibault <samuel.thibault@ens-lyon.org>
Copyright (C) Sam Ravnborg <sam@mars.ravnborg.org>, 2015
Copyright (C) STRATO AG 2013. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) STRATO AG 2012. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) STRATO AG 2011. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2019 Authors: Mickael Guene
<mickael.guene@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2018 Author: Benjamin Gaignard
<benjamin.gaignard@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2017 Authors: Yannick Fertre
<yannick.fertre@st.com> Hugues Fruchet <hugues.fruchet@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2017 Authors: Maxime Coquelin
<mcoquelin.stm32@gmail.com> Gerald Baeza <gerald_baeza@yahoo.fr>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2017 Authors: Maxime Coquelin
<mcoquelin.stm32@gmail.com> Gerald Baeza <gerald.baeza@foss.st.com> Erwan Le Ray
<erwan.leray@foss.st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2017 Author: Fabien Dessenne
<fabien.dessenne@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2017 Author: Alexandre Torgue
<alexandre.torgue@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2017 Author(s): M'boumba Cedric Madianga
<cedric.madianga@gmail.com> Pierre-Yves Mordret <pierre-yves.mordret@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2017 - All Rights Reserved Author: Gerald
Baeza <gerald.baeza@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2017
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2016
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2015 Authors: Yannick Fertre
<yannick.fertre@st.com> Hugues Fruchet <hugues.fruchet@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2015 Authors: Hugues Fruchet
<hugues.fruchet@st.com> Jean-Christophe Trotin <jean-christophe.trotin@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2015 Authors: Hugues Fruchet
<hugues.fruchet@st.com> Fabrice Lecoultre <fabrice.lecoultre@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2015 Authors: Arnaud Pouliquen
<arnaud.pouliquen@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2015 Author: Hugues Fruchet
<hugues.fruchet@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2014 Authors: Vincent Abriou
<vincent.abriou@st.com> Fabien Dessenne <fabien.dessenne@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2014 Authors: Fabien Dessenne
<fabien.dessenne@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2014 Authors: Benjamin Gaignard
<benjamin.gaignard@st.com> Vincent Abriou <vincent.abriou@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2014 Authors: Benjamin Gaignard
<benjamin.gaignard@st.com> Fabien Dessenne <fabien.dessenne@st.com> for
STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2014 Authors: Benjamin Gaignard
<benjamin.gaignard@st.com> Fabien Dessenne <fabien.dessenne@st.com> Vincent
Abriou <vincent.abriou@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2014 Author: Vincent Abriou
<vincent.abriou@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2014 Author: Fabien Dessenne
<fabien.dessenne@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2014 Author: Benjamin Gaignard
<benjamin.gaignard@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2013 Authors: Vincent Abriou
<vincent.abriou@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics SA 2013 Author: Hugues Fruchet
<hugues.fruchet@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2022 - All Rights Reserved Author: Gabriel
Fernandez <gabriel.fernandez@foss.st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2022 - All Rights Reserved Author: Alexandre
Torgue <alexandre.torgue@foss.st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2021 - All Rights Reserved Author: Alexandre
Torgue <alexandre.torgue@foss.st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2021 - All Rights Reserved Author: Alexandre
Torgue <alexandre.torgue@foss.st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2021 - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2020 - All Rights Reserved Author: Gabriel
Fernandez <gabriel.fernandez@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2020 - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2020
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2019.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2019 Authors: Gabriel Fernandez
<gabriel.fernandez@st.com> Pascal Paillet <p.paillet@st.com>.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2019 Author(s): Fabrice Gasnier
<fabrice.gasnier@st.com>.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2019 - All Rights Reserved Authors: Benjamin
Gaignard <benjamin.gaignard@st.com> Pascal Paillet <p.paillet@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2019 - All Rights Reserved Author: Alexandre
Torgue <alexandre.torgue@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 Author: Pascal Paillet <p.paillet@st.com>
for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 Author: Pascal Paillet <p.paillet@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 Author: Christophe Kerello
<christophe.kerello@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 - All Rights Reserved Authors: Ludovic
Barre <ludovic.barre@st.com> for STMicroelectronics. Fabien Dessenne
<fabien.dessenne@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 - All Rights Reserved Author: Philippe
Peurichard <philippe.peurichard@st.com>, Pascal Paillet <p.paillet@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 - All Rights Reserved Author: Olivier
Bideau <olivier.bideau@st.com> Author: Gabriel Fernandez
<gabriel.fernandez@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 - All Rights Reserved Author:
Ludovic.barre@st.com
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 - All Rights Reserved Author: Ludovic
Barre <ludovic.barre@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 - All Rights Reserved Author: Gabriel
Fernandez <gabriel.fernandez@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018 - All Rights Reserved Author: David
Hernandez Sanchez <david.hernandezsanchez@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2018
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 Author: Yannick Fertre
<yannick.fertre@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 Author: Maxime Coquelin
<mcoquelin.stm32@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 Author: M'boumba Cedric Madianga
<cedric.madianga@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 Author: Gabriel Fernandez
<gabriel.fernandez@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 Author: Fabrice Gasnier
<fabrice.gasnier@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 Author: Amelie Delaunay
<amelie.delaunay@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 Author: Alexandre Torgue
<alexandre.torgue@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 - All Rights Reserved Author: Torgue
Alexandre <alexandre.torgue@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 - All Rights Reserved Author: Ludovic
Barre <ludovic.barre@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 - All Rights Reserved Author: Alexandre
Torgue <alexandre.torgue@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017 - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2017
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2016 Author: Benjamin Gaignard
<benjamin.gaignard@st.com>
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2016
Copyright (C) STMicroelectronics 2009
Copyright (C) ST-Microelectronics SA 2013 Author: Maxime Coquelin
<maxime.coquelin@st.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2013 Author: Gabriel Fernandez
<gabriel.fernandez@st.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2013
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2012 Author: Johan Gardsmark
<johan.gardsmark@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2012
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2011-2013
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2011 Author: Lee Jones <lee.jones@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2011
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010-2013 Author: Rickard Andersson
<rickard.andersson@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Daniel Lezcano
<daniel.lezcano@linaro.org> for Linaro. Author: Ulf Hansson
<ulf.hansson@linaro.org> for Linaro.
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010-2013 Author: Rickard Andersson
<rickard.andersson@stericsson.com> Author: Daniel Lezcano
<daniel.lezcano@linaro.org> for Linaro.
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010 Johan Olson and Joakim Wesslen
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010 Author: shujuan.chen@stericsson.com for ST-
Ericsson.
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010 Author: Stewart Mathers
<stewart.mathers@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010 Author: Shujuan Chen
(shujuan.chen@stericsson.com) Author: Joakim Bech
(joakim.xx.bech@stericsson.com) Author: Berne Hebark
(berne.hebark@stericsson.com)
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010 Author: Shujuan Chen
(shujuan.chen@stericsson.com)
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010 Author: Shujuan Chen
<shujuan.chen@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Jonas Linde
<jonas.linde@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Niklas Hernaeus
<niklas.hernaeus@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Joakim Bech
<joakim.xx.bech@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Berne Hebark
<berne.herbark@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010 Author: Shujuan Chen
<shujuan.chen@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Jonas Linde
<jonas.linde@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Joakim Bech
<joakim.xx.bech@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Berne Hebark
<berne.herbark@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Niklas Hernaeus
<niklas.hernaeus@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson.
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010 Author: Shujuan Chen
<shujuan.chen@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Joakim Bech
<joakim.xx.bech@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Berne Hebark
<berne.herbark@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Niklas Hernaeus
<niklas.hernaeus@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Jonas Linde
<jonas.linde@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Andreas Westin
<andreas.westin@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010 Author: Shujuan Chen
<shujuan.chen@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson Author: Joakim Bech
<joakim.xx.bech@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson Author: Berne Hebark
<berne.herbark@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Niklas Hernaeus
<niklas.hernaeus@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson. Author: Andreas Westin
<andreas.westin@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010 Author: Naveen Kumar G
<naveen.gaddipati@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010 Author: Mattias Nilsson
<mattias.i.nilsson@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2010
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2008-2010 Author: Per Forlin
<per.forlin@stericsson.com> Jonas Aaberg <jonas.aberg@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2007-2010 Author: Per Friden
<per.friden@stericsson.com> Author: Jonas Aaberg <jonas.aberg@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson SA 2007-2010 Author: Per Forlin
<per.forlin@stericsson.com> for ST-Ericsson Author: Jonas Aaberg
<jonas.aberg@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson AB 2013 Authors: Vicram Arv Dmitry Tarnyagin
<dmitry.tarnyagin@lockless.no> Sjur Brendeland
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson AB 2012 Author: Sjur Brændeland
<sjur.brandeland@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson AB 2012
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson AB 2011 Author:	Sjur Brendeland
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson AB 2010 Authors:	Sjur Brendeland Daniel Martensson
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson AB 2010 Author: Sjur Brendeland
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson AB 2010 Author:	Sjur Brendeland
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson 2010-2012 Contact: Alexey Orishko
<alexey.orishko@stericsson.com> Original author: Hans Petter Selasky
<hans.petter.selasky@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) ST-Ericsson 2010-2012
Copyright (C) ST Microelectronics.
Copyright (C) ST Microelectronics SA 2011
Copyright (C) ST Microelectronics
Copyright (C) ST Ericsson SA 2011
Copyright (C) SAN People
Copyright (C) Russell King.
Copyright (C) Russell King
Copyright (C) Russ Anderson <rja@sgi.com>
Copyright (C) Ronen Shitrit <rshitrit@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) Rockchip Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Andy Yan <andy.yan@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) Rick Bronson
Copyright (C) Red Hat, Inc., 2013-2015
Copyright (C) Red Hat, Inc., 2011 Author(s): Steve French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) Red Hat, Inc., 2009, 2010, 2011
Copyright (C) Red Hat Inc., 2014. All rights reserved. Authors: Vivek Goyal
<vgoyal@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) Qu Wenruo 2017. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) Purism SPC 2020
Copyright (C) Purism SPC 2019
Copyright (C) Protonic Holland Author: David Jander <david@protonic.nl>
Copyright (C) Peter T. Breuer (ptb@ot.uc3m.es) 2003
Copyright (C) Peter Maydell 05/1998 <pmaydell@chiark.greenend.org.uk> Jochen
Friedrich <jochen@scram.de>
Copyright (C) People who wrote linux/arch/i386/kernel/sys_i386.c
Copyright (C) Pekka Pietikainen
Copyright (C) Pavel Machek, pavel@ucw.cz.
Copyright (C) Paul Mackerras 2005. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) Paul Mackerras 2005 All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) Paul Mackerras 2005
Copyright (C) Paul Mackerras 1997.
Copyright (C) Paul Ashton 1998-2000
Copyright (C) Overkiz SAS 2012
Copyright (C) Original authors of ../asm-i386/checksum.h
Copyright (C) Oliver Hartkopp <socketcan@hartkopp.net>
Copyright (C) Nokia Corporation Author: Matti Aaltonen
<matti.j.aaltonen@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) Neil Brown 2002
Copyright (C) Motorola, Inc. 1990 All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) Miroslav Lichvar <mlichvar@redhat.com> 2017
Copyright (C) Mike Christie, 2004 - 2006
Copyright (C) Mike Christie, 2004 - 2005
Copyright (C) Miguel Ojeda <ojeda@kernel.org> Date: 2006-10-31
Copyright (C) Miguel Ojeda <ojeda@kernel.org> Date: 2006-10-12
Copyright (C) Microsoft Corporation
Copyright (C) Maxime Coquelin 2015 Author: Maxime Coquelin
<mcoquelin.stm32@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) Maxime Coquelin 2015
Copyright (C) Matthijs Kooijman <matthijs@stdin.nl>
Copyright (C) Matt Helsley, IBM Corp. 2005 Nguyen Anh Quynh and Guillaume
Thouvenin
Copyright (C) Matt Helsley, IBM Corp. 2005 Guillaume Thouvenin
<guillaume.thouvenin@bull.net>
Copyright (C) Matt Domsch <Matt_Domsch@dell.com>
Copyright (C) Martin Schlemmer <azarah@nosferatu.za.org>
Copyright (C) Mario Six, Guntermann & Drunck GmbH, 2016
Copyright (C) Manu Abraham (abraham.manu@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) Manu Abraham <abraham.manu@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) Manivannan Sadhasivam <manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) MIPS Technologies, Inc. written by Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-
mips.org>
Copyright (C) M'boumba Cedric Madianga 2017 Author: M'boumba Cedric Madianga
<cedric.madianga@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) M'boumba Cedric Madianga 2017
Copyright (C) M'boumba Cedric Madianga 2016
Copyright (C) M'boumba Cedric Madianga 2015 Author: M'boumba Cedric Madianga
<cedric.madianga@gmail.com> Pierre-Yves Mordret <pierre-yves.mordret@st.com>
Copyright (C) Luke Kenneth Casson Leighton 1997-2001.
Copyright (C) Luke Kenneth Casson Leighton 1996-2000 Modified by Jeremy Allison
1995.
Copyright (C) Luke Kenneth Casson Leighton 1996-2000
Copyright (C) Linus Torvalds, 2005
Copyright (C) Linus Torvalds, 1991, 1992
Copyright (C) Linus Torvalds <torvalds@linux-foundation.org>, 2015
Copyright (C) Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) Linaro.
Copyright (C) Linaro Ltd. 2019-2021 Author: Linus Walleij Marcus Lorentzon
Copyright (C) Linaro Ltd 2020 Author: Daniel Lezcano <daniel.lezcano@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) Linaro Ltd 2019 - All Rights Reserved Author: Manivannan
Sadhasivam <manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) Laurence Culhane <loz@holmes.demon.co.uk>
Copyright (C) Kuninori Morimoto <morimoto.kuninori@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) Kirill A. Shutemov <kirill@shutemov.name>
Copyright (C) June 1999 James Simmons
Copyright (C) Josef Gajdusek <atx@atx.name>
Copyright (C) Jonathan Naylor G4KLX (g4klx@g4klx.demon.co.uk)
Copyright (C) John H Terpstra 1996-2000
Copyright (C) Johannes Schindelin, 2005
Copyright (C) Joerg Reuter DL1BKE (jreuter@yaina.de)
Copyright (C) Joel Fernandes (Google) <joel@joelfernandes.org>
Copyright (C) Jernej Skrabec <jernej.skrabec@siol.net>
Copyright (C) Jenna Hall <jenna.s.hall@intel.com>
Copyright (C) Jean-Francois Moine (http://moinejf.free.fr)
Copyright (C) Jaya Kumar
Copyright (C) Jay Lan,	<jlan@sgi.com>
Copyright (C) Jay Lan	SGI
Copyright (C) Javier Martinez Canillas <javier@dowhile0.org>
Copyright (C) Jan Henrik Weinstock <jan.weinstock@rwth-aachen.de> et al.
Copyright (C) IoT.bzh 2021
Copyright (C) Intuitive Aerial AB Written by Marten Svanfeldt,
marten@intuitiveaerial.com
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2009, 2013 Etersoft, 2012
Author(s): Steve French (sfrench@us.ibm.com) Pavel Shilovsky
(pshilovsky@samba.org) 2012
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2009 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2008 Author(s): Igor
Mammedov (niallain@gmail.com) Steve French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2007,2008 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2007 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2006 Authors: Artem
Bityutskiy (Битюцкий Артём) Thomas Gleixner Frank Haverkamp Oliver Lohmann
Andreas Arnez
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2005,2013 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2004, 2008
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002-2004
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002,2011 Etersoft, 2012
Author(s): Steve French (sfrench@us.ibm.com) Pavel Shilovsky
(pshilovsky@samba.org) 2012
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002,2011 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002,2010 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com) Jeremy Allison (jra@samba.org)
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002,2010 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002,2009 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002,2008 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com) Jeremy Allison (jra@samba.org) 2006.
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002,2008 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com) Jeremy Allison (jra@samba.org)
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002,2008 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002, 2011 Etersoft, 2012
Author(s): Steve French (sfrench@us.ibm.com) Jeremy Allison (jra@samba.org)
Pavel Shilovsky (pshilovsky@samba.org) 2012
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002, 2011 Etersoft, 2012
Author(s): Steve French (sfrench@us.ibm.com) Jeremy Allison (jra@samba.org) 2006
Pavel Shilovsky (pshilovsky@samba.org) 2012
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002, 2011 Etersoft, 2012
Author(s): Pavel Shilovsky (pshilovsky@samba.org), Steve French
(sfrench@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002, 2011 Author(s): Steve
French (sfrench@us.ibm.com), Pavel Shilovsky ((pshilovsky@samba.org) 2012
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2002
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2000-2005
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2000-2004
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2000-2003
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2000-2002
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2000-2001
Copyright (C) International Business Machines Corp., 2000,2005
Copyright (C) Intel Crop.
Copyright (C) Intel Corporation, 2005
Copyright (C) Intel Corporation 2017
Copyright (C) Intel 2017
Copyright (C) Ilya Yanok, Emcraft Systems 2010
Copyright (C) Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (C) Ian Molton <spyro@f2s.com>
Copyright (C) ITE Tech Inc.
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2020
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2018
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2017
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2016
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2015
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2014, 2017 Anton Blanchard, Rashmica Gupta.
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2014
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2013
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2012
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2011-2015
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2011 Anton Blanchard <anton@au.ibm.com> Author -
Balbir Singh <bsingharora@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2011
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2010-2012 Author:        Srikar Dronamraju
<srikar@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2010-2011 Author: Srikar Dronamraju
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2010
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2009
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2008-2012 Authors: Srikar Dronamraju Jim Keniston
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2008-2011 Authors: Srikar Dronamraju Jim Keniston
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2008
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2006
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2005, 2006
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2005 Jeff Muizelaar, 2006, 2007 Pekka Paalanen,
2008 <pq@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2004. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2004. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2004
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2003, 2010
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2002, 2004, 2009
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation, 2002, 2004
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation 2020
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation 2018
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation 2017.
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation 2017
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation 2016.
Copyright (C) IBM Corporation 2016
Copyright (C) IBM Corp. 2022. All rights reserved. Author(s): Pierre Morel
<pmorel@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) IBM Corp. 2020. All rights reserved. Author(s): Pierre Morel
<pmorel@linux.ibm.com> Matthew Rosato <mjrosato@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) IBM Corp. 2006
Copyright (C) IBM 2005 Author: Mark Nutter <mnutter@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) Huawei Inc., 2014
Copyright (C) Huawei Futurewei Technologies.
Copyright (C) Hitachi, Ltd., 2011
Copyright (C) Hitachi Ltd., 2015 Written by Hiraku Toyooka
<hiraku.toyooka.gu@hitachi.com>
Copyright (C) Hitachi Ltd., 2014 Written by Masami Hiramatsu
<masami.hiramatsu.pt@hitachi.com>
Copyright (C) Hitachi Ltd., 2012
Copyright (C) Hidetoshi Seto <seto.hidetoshi@jp.fujitsu.com>
Copyright (C) Harald Geyer <harald@ccbib.org> Jagan Teki <jteki@openedev.com>
Copyright (C) Hans-Joachim Hetscher DD8NE (dd8ne@bnv-bamberg.de)
Copyright (C) Hans Alblas PE1AYX (hans@esrac.ele.tue.nl)
Copyright (C) Hans Alblas PE1AYX <hans@esrac.ele.tue.nl>
Copyright (C) Guenter Roeck <linux@roeck-us.net>
Copyright (C) Greg Lonnon 2001 Tony Lindgren <tony@atomide.com>
Copyright (C) Google, 2022
Copyright (C) Google, 2020.
Copyright (C) Google LLC, 2020
Copyright (C) Google LLC, 2018
Copyright (C) Gao Xiang <xiang@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co.Ltd Zheng Yang <zhengyang@rock-
chips.com> Yakir Yang <ykk@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (C) Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co.Ltd Zheng Yang <zhengyang@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co.Ltd Author:Mark Yao <mark.yao@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Sandy Huang <hjc@rock-
chips.com> Mark Yao <mark.yao@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (C) Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Sandy Huang <hjc@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Mark Yao
<mark.yao@rock-chips.com> Sandy Huang <hjc@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (C) Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Jacob Chen <jacob-
chen@iotwrt.com>
Copyright (C) Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Chris Zhong <zyw@rock-
chips.com> Nickey Yang <nickey.yang@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (C) Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Chris Zhong <zyw@rock-
chips.com> Kever Yang <kever.yang@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (C) Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Chris Zhong <zyw@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Andy Yan
<andy.yan@rock-chips.com> Yakir Yang <ykk@rock-chips.com> Jeff Chen
<jeff.chen@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (C) Fujitsu, 2012
Copyright (C) Freescale Semicondutor, Inc. 2007, 2008.
Copyright (C) Freescale Semicondutor, Inc. 2006-2009. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. 2009. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. 2007. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. 2006. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) Frederic Rible F1OAT (frible@teaser.fr)
Copyright (C) Fred N. van Kempen <waltje@uwalt.nl.mugnet.org>
Copyright (C) Fred Lewis <frederick.v.lewis@intel.com>
Copyright (C) Facebook, 2020.
Copyright (C) Facebook, 2020
Copyright (C) Ericsson AB 2007-2008
Copyright (C) Egbert Eich 2003,2004
Copyright (C) Dmitry Yusupov, 2004 - 2005
Copyright (C) Deepak Saxena <dsaxena@plexity.net>
Copyright (C) David Howells
Copyright (C) David Gibson, Linuxcare Australia
Copyright (C) David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) Dave Airlie 2005 All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) Darryl Miles G7LED (dlm@g7led.demon.co.uk)
Copyright (C) Daniel Lezcano <daniel.lezcano@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) Collabora, Ltd.
Copyright (C) Chuck Fleckenstein <cfleck@co.intel.com>
Copyright (C) Christoph Hellwig, 2002
Copyright (C) Christoph Hellwig, 2001-2002
Copyright (C) Christoph Hellwig 2007
Copyright (C) Chandra Seetharaman, IBM Corp. 2007
Copyright (C) Carnegie Mellon University
Copyright (C) Canonical Ltd. <seth.forshee@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) BitBox Ltd 2010
Copyright (C) BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) Barak A. Pearlmutter.
Copyright (C) Balbir Singh, IBM Corp. 2006
Copyright (C) Asias He <asias@redhat.com>, 2013
Copyright (C) Ashok Raj<ashok.raj@intel.com>, Intel Corporation 2004
Copyright (C) Ashok Raj <ashok.raj@intel.com>
Copyright (C) April 2007 Antonino Daplas <adaplas@pol.net>
Copyright (C) Andrew Tridgell 2001
Copyright (C) Andrew Tridgell 1992-2000
Copyright (C) Andrew Bartlett <abartlet@samba.org> 2002-2003 Steve French
(sfrench@us.ibm.com) 2002-2003
Copyright (C) Andreas Gruenbacher, 2001
Copyright (C) Andrea Merello 2004-2005 <andrea.merello@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) Andrea Merello 2004 <andrea.merello@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) Amit Shah <amit.shah@redhat.com>, 2009, 2010, 2011
Copyright (C) Amazon Technologies Inc. All rights reserved. Manish Lachwani
(lachwani@lab126.com)
Copyright (C) Altera Corporation 1998-2001
Copyright (C) All BPF authors and contributors from 2014 to present.
Copyright (C) Alexander Popov, Promcontroller 2014
Copyright (C) Alex Williamson (alex_williamson@hp.com)
Copyright (C) Alex Holden <alex@linuxhacker.org> 1998, 1999.
Copyright (C) Alex Aizman, 2004 - 2005
Copyright (C) Alan Hourihane 2005 All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) Alan Cox GW4PTS (alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk)
Copyright (C) AbsoluteValue Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) Abilis Systems 2013
Copyright (C) Abilis Systems 2012
Copyright (C) ASPEED Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) ARM Limited, 2017.
Copyright (C) ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2022. Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd
Copyright (C) 2022-2023 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2022, Unisoc Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author: Fabrice
Gasnier <fabrice.gasnier@foss.st.com>.
Copyright (C) 2022, STMicroelectronics
Copyright (C) 2022, Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022, Microchip
Copyright (C) 2022, Linaro Ltd - Daniel Lezcano <daniel.lezcano@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2022, Kernkonzept GmbH.
Copyright (C) 2022, Intel, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2022, Intel Corporation Author: Heikki Krogerus
<heikki.krogerus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2022, Intel Corporation Author: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2022, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2022, Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022, Google LLC. Author: Daniel Latypov <dlatypov@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2022, Google LLC.
Copyright (C) 2022, Google LLC Author: Alexander Potapenko <glider@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2022, Christophe Branchereau <cbranchereau@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022, Bytedance Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2022, Alibaba Group.
Copyright (C) 2022, Alibaba Cloud
Copyright (C) 2022 esd electronics gmbh, Frank Jungclaus
<frank.jungclaus@esd.eu>
Copyright (C) 2022 Zev Weiss <zev@bewilderbeest.net>
Copyright (C) 2022 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022 William Breathitt Gray
Copyright (C) 2022 Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2022 Unisoc, Inc. Author: Xiaolong Zhang
<xiaolong.zhang@unisoc.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Tomasz Warniełło (POD)
Copyright (C) 2022 Tianjia Zhang <tianjia.zhang@linux.alibaba.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 The Asahi Linux Contributors
Copyright (C) 2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2022 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022 Sunplus Technology Inc., All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2022 Stefan Wahren <stefan.wahren@i2se.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Song Liu <song@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2022 Schneider-Electric Author: Miquel Raynal
<miquel.raynal@bootlin.com Peter Ujfalusi <peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Schneider-Electric
Copyright (C) 2022 Schneider Electric
Copyright (C) 2022 Samuel Holland <samuel@sholland.org>
Copyright (C) 2022 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2022 SHIMAMOTO Takayoshi <takayoshi.shimamoto.360@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Roman Gushchin <roman.gushchin@linux.dev>
Copyright (C) 2022 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2022 Richtek Technology Corp. Author: ChiYuan Huang
<cy_huang@richtek.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Richtek Technology Corp.
Copyright (C) 2022 Renesas Electronics Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2022 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2022 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2022 Red Hat, Inc. Author: Vladis Dronov <vdronoff@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2022 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022 Rafał Miłecki <rafal@milecki.pl>
Copyright (C) 2022 Pengutronix, Marco Felsch <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2022 Pawel Dembicki <paweldembicki@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Teresa Remmet
<t.remmet@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2022 Owen Rafferty <owen@owenrafferty.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Oracle. All Rights Reserved. Author: Allison Henderson
<allison.henderson@oracle.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2022 Nvidia Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2022 NXP
Copyright (C) 2022 Mikhail Zhilkin
Copyright (C) 2022 Microchip.
Copyright (C) 2022 Microchip Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2022 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2022 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022 Michael T. Kloos <michael@michaelkloos.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Meta Platforms Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022 Meta
Copyright (C) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Yongqiang Niu
<yongqiang.niu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Hui Liu <hui.liu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author: Allen-KH Cheng <allen-
kh.cheng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 MediaTek Inc. Author Fengping Yu <fengping.yu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022 Maximilian Luz <luzmaximilian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Masahiro Yamada <masahiroy@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2022 Marvell.
Copyright (C) 2022 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2022 Marcus Folkesson <marcus.folkesson@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Luca Weiss <luca.weiss@fairphone.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Luca Ceresoli Author: Luca Ceresoli
<luca.ceresoli@bootlin.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Luca Ceresoli
Copyright (C) 2022 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited
Copyright (C) 2022 Linutronix GmbH
Copyright (C) 2022 Linaro Ltd. Author: Manivannan Sadhasivam
<manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2022 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2022 Linaro Ltd
Copyright (C) 2022 Liam Beguin <liambeguin@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@idesonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Kontron Electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2022 Kernkonzept GmbH.
Copyright (C) 2022 Julien Panis <jpanis@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Jonathan Lemon <jonathan.lemon@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 John David Anglin <dave.anglin@bell.net>
Copyright (C) 2022 Jeff LaBundy <jeff@labundy.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Jason A. Donenfeld <Jason@zx2c4.com>. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2022 Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia Electronic Design Laboratory
Copyright (C) 2022 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2022 Intel Corporation Ira Weiny <ira.weiny@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Intel Corporation Author: Rostislav Lisovy
<rostislav.lisovy@fel.cvut.cz> Funded by: Volkswagen Group Research
Copyright (C) 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2022 Ideas on Board
Copyright (C) 2022 IBM Corporation Author: Nayna Jain <nayna@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 IBM Corporation Author: Dov Murik <dovmurik@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Huawei Technologies Duesseldorf GmbH
Copyright (C) 2022 Huawei Technologies Co, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2022 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (C) 2022 HiSilicon Limited Author: Qi Liu <liuqi115@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 HiSilicon Limited
Copyright (C) 2022 Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Development Company, L.P.
Copyright (C) 2022 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
Copyright (C) 2022 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de> LaMont Jones <lamont@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2022 Google, Inc Author: yunkec@google.com (Yunke Cao)
Copyright (C) 2022 Google, Inc
Copyright (C) 2022 Google LLC.
Copyright (C) 2022 Google LLC Author: Alexander Potapenko <glider@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Google LLC
Copyright (C) 2022 Google Inc, Steven Rostedt <rostedt@goodmis.org>
Copyright (C) 2022 Glider bv
Copyright (C) 2022 Gerhard Engleder <gerhard@engleder-embedded.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 EPAM Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022 DENX Software Engineering GmbH, Philip Oberfichtner
<pro@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2022 Collabora, Ltd. Author: Shreeya Patel
<shreeya.patel@collabora.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Clément Péron <peron.clem@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2022 Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Changbin Du <changbin.du@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Bootlin
Copyright (C) 2022 BayLibre, SAS. Author: Fabien Parent <fparent@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 BayLibre Incorporated - https://www.baylibre.com/
Copyright (C) 2022 Avnet Embedded GmbH
Copyright (C) 2022 Author(s): Jesse Taube <Mr.Bossman075@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Analog Devices, Inc. Author: Ramona Bolboaca
<ramona.bolboaca@analog.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Amarula Solutions, Dario Binacchi
<dario.binacchi@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Allied Telesis Labs
Copyright (C) 2022 Alibaba Inc
Copyright (C) 2022 Alibaba Cloud
Copyright (C) 2022 Akira Yokosawa
Copyright (C) 2022 Aidan MacDonald
Copyright (C) 2022 Agathe Porte <agathe.porte@nokia.com> Lionel Pouliquen
<lionel.lp.pouliquen@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Authors: Christian König
<christian.koenig@amd.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Author: Suravee Suthikulpanit
<suravee.suthikulpanit@amd.com> Author: Vasant Hegde <vasant.hegde@amd.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2022 Adam Sindelar (Meta) <adam@wowsignal.io>
Copyright (C) 2022 Aaron Tomlin
Copyright (C) 2022 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2022 ARM Limited. Original author: Mark Brown <broonie@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2022 ARM Limited.
Copyright (C) 2022 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2022 9elements GmbH Authors: Patrick Rudolph
<patrick.rudolph@9elements.com> Naresh Solanki <Naresh.Solanki@9elements.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 - Google LLC Author: Keir Fraser <keirf@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2022 - Conor Dooley <conor.dooley@microchip.com>
Copyright (C) 2021. Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd
Copyright (C) 2021-2022, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2021-2022, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2021-2022, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021-2022, Google LLC. Author: Alexander Potapenko
<glider@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2021-2022, Alibaba Cloud
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Samuel Holland <samuel@sholland.org>
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Maximilian Luz <luzmaximilian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Linaro Ltd Author: Krzysztof Kozlowski
<krzysztof.kozlowski@linaro.org> Thara Gopinath
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia Electronic Design
Laboratory Written by Andrea Merello <andrea.merello@iit.it>
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Corigine Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 Arınç ÜNAL <arinc.unal@arinc9.com>
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021-2022 - Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@aries-embedded.de>
Copyright (C) 2021-2 ARM Limited. Original author: Mark Brown
<broonie@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2021, VMware Inc, Tzvetomir Stoyanov tz.stoyanov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021, VMware Inc, Steven Rostedt <rostedt@goodmis.org>
Copyright (C) 2021, Stephan Mueller <smueller@chronox.de>
Copyright (C) 2021, Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021, Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021, Qing Zhang <zhangqing@loongson.cn>
Copyright (C) 2021, Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (C) 2021, Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2021, Microsoft, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021, Microsoft Corporation. Pasha Tatashin
<pasha.tatashin@soleen.com>
Copyright (C) 2021, Microsoft Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021, Linaro Limited. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2021, Jiri Slaby
Copyright (C) 2021, Intel, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021, Intel Corporation. 
Copyright (C) 2021, Intel Corporation Author: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2021, Intel Corporation Author: Heikki Krogerus
<heikki.krogerus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2021, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021, Huawei, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021, Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2021, Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021, Google LLC. Author: Daniel Latypov <dlatypov@google.com.com>
Copyright (C) 2021, Google LLC. Author: Daniel Latypov <dlatypov@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2021, Google LLC. Author: Brendan Higgins
<brendanhiggins@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2021, Google LLC.
Copyright (C) 2021, CodeWeavers Inc. <nfraser@codeweavers.com>
Copyright (C) 2021, Christophe Branchereau <cbranchereau@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021, Alibaba Cloud
Copyright (C) 2021 Álvaro Fernández Rojas <noltari@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 reMarkable AS - http://www.remarkable.com/
Copyright (C) 2021 metux IT consult Enrico Weigelt, metux IT consult
<info@metux.net>
Copyright (C) 2021 in-tech smart charging GmbH
Copyright (C) 2021 emtrion GmbH Author: Frank Erdrich
<frank.erdrich@emtrion.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 emtrion GmbH
Copyright (C) 2021 YADRO
Copyright (C) 2021 Y Soft Corporation, a.s.
Copyright (C) 2021 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 William Breathitt Gray
Copyright (C) 2021 Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2021 Western Digital Corporation or its Affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2021 Vincent Mailhol <mailhol.vincent@wanadoo.fr>
Copyright (C) 2021 VMware Inc, Steven Rostedt <rostedt@goodmis.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Toshiba Electronic Device & Storage Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021 Tobias Schramm <t.schramm@manjaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Tianjia Zhang <tianjia.zhang@linux.alibaba.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Thomas Weißschuh <thomas@weissschuh.net>
Copyright (C) 2021 Thomas Weißschuh <linux@weissschuh.net>
Copyright (C) 2021 The Asahi Linux Contributors
Copyright (C) 2021 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2021 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2021 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2021 TOSHIBA CORPORATION
Copyright (C) 2021 Synaptics Incorporated Author: Jisheng Zhang
<jszhang@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Sunplus Technology Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Sunplus Technology Co.
Copyright (C) 2021 Stephan Gerhold
Copyright (C) 2021 StarFive Technology Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Stafford Horne
Copyright (C) 2021 Socionext Inc. Author: Kunihiko Hayashi
<hayashi.kunihiko@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Sifive.
Copyright (C) 2021 Sieć Badawcza Łukasiewicz Przemysłowy Instytut Automatyki i
Pomiarów PIAP Written by Krzysztof Hałasa
Copyright (C) 2021 SiFive
Copyright (C) 2021 Sebastian Reichel
Copyright (C) 2021 Sean Anderson <sean.anderson@seco.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Schneider Electric Author: Miquel RAYNAL
<miquel.raynal@bootlin.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Sartura Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Sancloud Ltd
Copyright (C) 2021 SanCloud Ltd
Copyright (C) 2021 Samuel Holland <samuel@sholland.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author(s): Namjae Jeon
<linkinjeon@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Samsung Electrnoics Bongsu Jeon <bongsu.jeon@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 STMicroelectronics Author: Alain Volmat <avolmat@me.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2021 Russell King <rmk@armlinux.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 2021 Romain Perier
Copyright (C) 2021 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.rock-chips.com
Copyright (C) 2021 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 RenewOutReach
Copyright (C) 2021 Renesas Electronics Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2021 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2021 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2021 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2021 Red Hat Inc, Daniel Bristot de Oliveira <bristot@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Raspberry Pi
Copyright (C) 2021 Rafał Miłecki <rafal@milecki.pl>
Copyright (C) 2021 ROHM Semiconductors
Copyright (C) 2021 Purism SPC <kernel@puri.sm>
Copyright (C) 2021 Purism SPC
Copyright (C) 2021 Protonic Holland Author: Roan van Dijk <roan@protonic.nl>
Copyright (C) 2021 Pengutronix, Oleksij Rempel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 Pengutronix, Ahmad Fatoum <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Yunus Bas <y.bas@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Alexander Bauer
<a.bauer@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 Oracle.
Copyright (C) 2021 Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2021 OpenSynergy GmbH
Copyright (C) 2021 Oleksij Rempel <o.rempel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 Oleh Kravchenko <oleg@kaa.org.ua>
Copyright (C) 2021 Nuvoton Technologies. Author: Tomer Maimon
<tomer.maimon@nuvoton.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Niklas Söderlund
Copyright (C) 2021 Nathan Rossi <nathan.rossi@digi.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 NXP Author: Radu Pirea <radu-nicolae.pirea@oss.nxp.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2021 Mugilraj Dhavachelvan <dmugil2000@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Microsoft Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021 Microchip Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2021 Microchip Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2021 Michael Walle <michael@walle.cc>
Copyright (C) 2021 Michael Tretter <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 Michael Rasmussen <mir@bang-olufsen.dk>
Copyright (C) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Zhiyong Tao <zhiyong.tao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Seiya Wang <seiya.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sam.Shih <sam.shih@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sam Shih <sam.shih@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Guodong Liu <Guodong.Liu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 MediaTek Inc. Author: Argus Lin <argus.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Maxlinear Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021 Matteo Croce
Copyright (C) 2021 Marvell.
Copyright (C) 2021 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2021 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Mark Kettenis <kettenis@openbsd.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 Marek Behun
Copyright (C) 2021 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2021 Luca Ceresoli Author: Luca Ceresoli
<luca.ceresoli@bootlin.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Lorenzo Bianconi <lorenzo@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Lite-On Technology Corp (Singapore) Author: Shi Zhigang
<Zhigang.Shi@liteon.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Linaro. Viresh Kumar <viresh.kumar@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Linaro Ltd. Author: Sam Protsenko
<semen.protsenko@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Linaro Ltd <loic.poulain@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Lauri Kasanen
Copyright (C) 2021 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2021 Julian Scheel <julian@jusst.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 Jonathan Marek
Copyright (C) 2021 Johan Hovold <johan@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Joe Sandom <joe.g.sandom@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Joe Hung <joe_hung@ilitek.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Jernej Skrabec <jernej.skrabec@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Jacopo Mondi <jacopo+renesas@jmondi.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Jacopo Mondi
Copyright (C) 2021 Ivan Uvarov <i.uvarov@cognitivepilot.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Isovalent, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2021 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2021 Intel Corporation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Intel Corporation Author: johannes@sipsolutions.net
Copyright (C) 2021 Intel Corporation Author: Johannes Berg
<johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright (C) 2021 Intel Corporation Author: Chen Yu <yu.c.chen@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021 Integrated Device Technology, Inc., a Renesas Company.
Copyright (C) 2021 Innovative Advantage
Copyright (C) 2021 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2021 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. https://www.huawei.com
Copyright (C) 2021 Huawei Technologies Co, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Huawei Jonathan Cameron <Jonathan.Cameron@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 HiSilicon Limited Author: Qi Liu <liuqi115@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 Heiko Thiery <heiko.thiery@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Google LLC.
Copyright (C) 2021 Google LLC Author: Fuad Tabba <tabba@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Google LLC
Copyright (C) 2021 Glider bv
Copyright (C) 2021 Gerhard Engleder <gerhard@engleder-embedded.com> 
Copyright (C) 2021 GRATE-DRIVER project
Copyright (C) 2021 GE Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Fraunhofer AISEC. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2021 Felix Fietkau <nbd@nbd.name>
Copyright (C) 2021 Facebook, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Facebook
Copyright (C) 2021 Fabio Estevam <festevam@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 Eugene Shalygin <eugene.shalygin@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Emmanuel Gil Peyrot <linkmauve@linkmauve.fr>
Copyright (C) 2021 Emil Renner Berthing <kernel@esmil.dk>
Copyright (C) 2021 Emil Renner Berthing
Copyright (C) 2021 Dávid Virág <virag.david003@gmail.com> Author: Sam Protsenko
<semen.protsenko@linaro.org> Author: Dávid Virág <virag.david003@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Dávid Virág <virag.david003@gmail.com> Author: Dávid Virág
<virag.david003@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Dillon Min <dillon.minfei@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Delta Networks, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Dell Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2021 Daniel Palmer
Copyright (C) 2021 Daniel Mack
Copyright (C) 2021 Daniel Bristot de Oliveira, Red Hat, Inc.
<bristot@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 DH electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2021 Corigine, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Corigine, Inc
Copyright (C) 2021 Corentin Labbe <clabbe@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Corentin LABBE <clabbe@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Corellium LLC
Copyright (C) 2021 Collabora, Ltd. Andrzej Pietrasiewicz
<andrzej.p@collabora.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Collabora, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Collabora Ltd, Emil Velikov <emil.velikov@collabora.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Collabora Ltd, Andrzej Pietrasiewicz
<andrzej.p@collabora.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Cisco Systems
Copyright (C) 2021 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Chukun Pan <amadeus@jmu.edu.cn>
Copyright (C) 2021 Christian Hewitt <christianshewitt@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Chris Blake <chrisrblake93@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Charles Mirabile, Mwesigwa Guma, Joel Savitz
Copyright (C) 2021 Cai Huoqing
Copyright (C) 2021 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Broadcom. All Rights Reserved. The term “Broadcom” refers to
Broadcom Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
Copyright (C) 2021 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Bartosz Golaszewski <brgl@bgdev.pl>
Copyright (C) 2021 Barco NV Author: Santosh Kumar Yadav
<santoshkumar.yadav@barco.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 BSH Hausgeraete GmbH
Copyright (C) 2021 BAIKAL ELECTRONICS, JSC
Copyright (C) 2021 Axis Communications AB Author: Ricard Wanderlof
<ricardw@axis.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Axis Communications AB
Copyright (C) 2021 Author(s): Jesse Taube <Mr.Bossman075@gmail.com> Giulio
Benetti <giulio.benetti@benettiengineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Author(s): Jesse Taube <Mr.Bossman075@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Author(s): Giulio Benetti
<giulio.benetti@benettiengineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Aspeed Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 Angelo Dureghello <angelo@kernel-space.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 Andreas Klinger <ak@it-klinger.de>
Copyright (C) 2021 Analog Devices, Inc. Author: Cosmin Tanislav
<cosmin.tanislav@analog.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 Amarula Solutions(India)
Copyright (C) 2021 Alyssa Rosenzweig <alyssa@rosenzweig.io>
Copyright (C) 2021 Alvin Šipraga <alsi@bang-olufsen.dk>
Copyright (C) 2021 Allwinner Ltd
Copyright (C) 2021 Allied Telesis Labs
Copyright (C) 2021 Alexander Voronov <avv.0@ya.ru>
Copyright (C) 2021 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All the rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021 Advanced Micro Devices
Copyright (C) 2021 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2021 ARM Limited. Original author: Mark Brown <broonie@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2021 ARM Limited.
Copyright (C) 2021 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2021 - Google LLC Author: David Brazdil <dbrazdil@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2021 - 2022 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2021	Lauri Kasanen
Copyright (C) 2020-21 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2020-21 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020-21 Cadence
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 OpenSynergy.
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 Microchip Technology Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 Maximilian Luz <luzmaximilian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 MaxLinear, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 Loongson Technology Corporation Limited
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 Gabriel Somlo <gsomlo@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020-2022 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020-2021, 2023 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Zong Li
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 SiFive, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Samuel Holland <samuel@sholland.org>
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 OpenSynergy GmbH
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 NVIDIA CORPORATION & AFFILIATES
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Maximilian Luz <luzmaximilian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Matthew Hagan <mnhagan88@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Cristian Ciocaltea <cristian.ciocaltea@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Bytedance Inc. and/or its affiliates. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Andrejus Basovas <xxx@yyy.tld>
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020, Topic Embedded Products
Copyright (C) 2020, Tobias Schramm
Copyright (C) 2020, STMicroelectronics Author(s): Amelie Delaunay
<amelie.delaunay@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2020, Richtek Technology Corp. Author: ChiYuan Huang
<cy_huang@richtek.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020, ROHM Semiconductors. Author: Matti Vaittinen
<matti.vaittien@fi.rohmeurope.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (C) 2020, Oracle.
Copyright (C) 2020, Oracle and/or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2020, Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2020, Maxim Kochetkov <fido_max@inbox.ru>
Copyright (C) 2020, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020, Jiaxun Yang <jiaxun.yang@flygoat.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2020, Intel Corporation Authors: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com> Rajmohan Mani <rajmohan.mani@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Intel Corporation Authors: Kranthi Kuntala
<kranthi.kuntala@intel.com> Mika Westerberg <mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Intel Corporation Authors: Isaac Hazan
<isaac.hazan@intel.com> Mika Westerberg <mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Intel Corporation Authors: Gil Fine <gil.fine@intel.com>
Mika Westerberg <mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Intel Corporation Author: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Intel Corporation Author: K V, Abhilash
<abhilash.k.v@intel.com> Author: Heikki Krogerus
<heikki.krogerus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Intel Corporation Author: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020, IBM
Copyright (C) 2020, Huawei Tech. Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020, Google, LLC.
Copyright (C) 2020, Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020, Google LLC. Author: Uriel Guajardo
<urielguajardo@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Google LLC. Author: Marco Elver <elver@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Google LLC. Author: Heidi Fahim <heidifahim@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Google LLC. Author: Alexander Potapenko <glider@google.com>
Marco Elver <elver@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Google LLC.
Copyright (C) 2020, Google LLC
Copyright (C) 2020, Daniel Silsby <dansilsby@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, Christophe Branchereau <cbranchereau@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno <kholk11@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, 2022 Intel Corporation Author: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2020, 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020, 2021 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 周琰杰 (Zhou Yanjie) <zhouyanjie@wanyeetech.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Álvaro Fernández Rojas <noltari@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 huangzhenwei@allwinnertech.com
Copyright (C) 2020 by Wolfram Sang, Sang Engineering <wsa@sang-engineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 by Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020 by Jan (janneke) Nieuwenhuizen, <janneke@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Zong Li
Copyright (C) 2020 Yu-Tung Chang <mtwget@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Y Soft Corporation, a.s.
Copyright (C) 2020 Xiphera Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 William Breathitt Gray
Copyright (C) 2020 Wilken Gottwalt <wilken.gottwalt@posteo.net>
Copyright (C) 2020 Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2020 Vivo Communication Technology Co. Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Vitaly Wool, Konsulko AB
Copyright (C) 2020 Vasily khoruzhick <anarsoul@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
Copyright (C) 2020 Unisoc, Inc. Author: Chunyan Zhang <chunyan.zhang@unisoc.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Unisoc Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Topic Embedded Products
Copyright (C) 2020 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
Copyright (C) 2020 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated Author: Peter Ujfalusi
<peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com Author:
Peter Ujfalusi <peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Author:
Jyri Sarha <jsarha@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com Author:
Peter Ujfalusi <peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com Author:
Kishon Vijay Abraham I <kishon@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments Author: Kishon Vijay Abraham I
<kishon@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2020 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2020 Synaptics Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2020 Sungbo Eo <mans0n@gorani.run>
Copyright (C) 2020 Stephan Gerhold
Copyright (C) 2020 Stefan Wahren
Copyright (C) 2020 Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Silvaco Author: Miquel RAYNAL <miquel.raynal@bootlin.com>
Conor Culhane <conor.culhane@silvaco.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 SiFive, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 SiFive
Copyright (C) 2020 Shanghai StarFive Technology Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Sean Young <sean@mess.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Sean Anderson <seanga2@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Sartura Ltd. Author: Luka Kovacic <luka.kovacic@sartura.hr>
Copyright (C) 2020 Sartura Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Seungwon Jeon
<essuuj@gmail.com> Author: Alim Akhtar <alim.akhtar@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author(s): Namjae Jeon
<linkinjeon@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Samsung Electronics Bongsu Jeon <bongsu.jeon@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Samsung Electrnoics Bongsu Jeon <bongsu.jeon@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Safran Passenger Innovations LLC
Copyright (C) 2020 STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2020 STMicroelectronics
Copyright (C) 2020 SMART Wireless Computing Author: Vinay Simha BN
<simhavcs@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Ruslan Bilovol (ruslan.bilovol@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2020 Roman Gushchin <guro@fb.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Rohm Semiconductors Mikko Mutanen
<mikko.mutanen@fi.rohmeurope.com> Markus Laine <markus.laine@fi.rohmeurope.com>
Matti Vaittinen <matti.vaittinen@fi.rohmeurope.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Rockchip Inc. Author: Yifeng Zhao <yifeng.zhao@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Renesas Electronics Europe GmbH -
https://www.renesas.com/eu/en/
Copyright (C) 2020 Renesas Electronics Corporation Kuninori Morimoto
<kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2020 Remi Pommarel <repk@triplefau.lt>
Copyright (C) 2020 Red Hat, Inc. Author: Jason Wang <jasowang@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2020 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Red Hat GmbH
Copyright (C) 2020 Rafał Miłecki <rafal@milecki.pl>
Copyright (C) 2020 ROHM Semiconductors
Copyright (C) 2020 Purism SPC Author: Guido Günther <agx@sigxcpu.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Purism SPC <kernel@puri.sm>
Copyright (C) 2020 Purism SPC
Copyright (C) 2020 Pengutronix, Ulrich Oelmann <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Pengutronix, Sascha Hauer <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Pengutronix, Michael Tretter <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Pengutronix, Michael Grzeschik <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Pengutronix, Ahmad Fatoum <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 2020 Paul Mackerras <paulus@ozlabs.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Paul E. McKenney.
Copyright (C) 2020 Paul E. McKenney
Copyright (C) 2020 Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (C) 2020 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Yunus Bas <y.bas@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Teresa Remmet
<t.remmet@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Jens Lang <J.Lang@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Oracle. All Rights Reserved. Author: Darrick J. Wong
<darrick.wong@oracle.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Oracle Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020 Ondrej Jirman <megous@megous.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Oliver Hartkopp <socketcan@hartkopp.net>
Copyright (C) 2020 Olimex Ltd. Author: Stefan Mavrodiev <stefan@olimex.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Nvidia Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Nuvoton Technologies tali.perry@nuvoton.com
Copyright (C) 2020 NovaTech LLC George McCollister
<george.mccollister@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Norphonic AS Author: Eugene Zaikonnikov <ez@norphonic.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Nishant Malpani <nish.malpani25@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Nicolas Saenz Julienne <nsaenzjulienne@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 National Instruments Corporation Author: Michael Auchter
<michael.auchter@ni.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 NXP
Copyright (C) 2020 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2020 NVIDIA CORPORATION.
Copyright (C) 2020 Microsemi Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020 Microchip Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2020 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2020 Microchip
Copyright (C) 2020 Micro Crystal SA
Copyright (C) 2020 Michael Klein
Copyright (C) 2020 Mellanox Technologies, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Zhiyong Tao <zhiyong.tao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Weijie Gao <weijie.gao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Seiya Wang <seiya.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 MediaTek Inc. Author: Argus Lin <argus.lin@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 MediaTek Inc. 
Copyright (C) 2020 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Maxime Ripard <maxime@cerno.tech>
Copyright (C) 2020 Maxim Integrated Products
Copyright (C) 2020 MaxLinear, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Matteo Scordino <matteo@elimo.io>
Copyright (C) 2020 Matt Helsley <mhelsley@vmware.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Marvell.
Copyright (C) 2020 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Martijn Braam <martijn@brixit.nl>
Copyright (C) 2020 Mark Hills <mark@xwax.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Marius Zachmann <mail@mariuszachmann.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Marcin Sloniewski <marcin.sloniewski@gmail.com>.
Copyright (C) 2020 Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Manivannan Sadhasivam
Copyright (C) 2020 MOXA Inc. - https://www.moxa.com/
Copyright (C) 2020 Luca Weiss <luca@z3ntu.xyz>
Copyright (C) 2020 Luca Hsu <luca_hsu@ilitek.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright (C) 2020 Lubomir Rintel
Copyright (C) 2020 Linutronix GmbH Author Kurt Kanzenbach <kurt@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Linumiz Author: Parthiban Nallathambi <parthiban@linumiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Linaro Ltd. Author: Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Linaro Ltd Author: Sumit Semwal <sumit.semwal@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Linaro Ltd Author: Jun Nie <jun.nie@linaro.org> Georgi
Djakov.
Copyright (C) 2020 Linaro Ltd <loic.poulain@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Linaro Ltd
Copyright (C) 2020 Lars Povlsen <lars.povlsen@microchip.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Kuninori Morimoto <kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Konsulko Group Author: Matt Ranostay
<matt.ranostay@konsulko.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Kent Gibson
Copyright (C) 2020 Kamstrup A/S Author: Bruno Thomsen <bruno.thomsen@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Kalray, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2020 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Johannes Cornelis Draaijer
Copyright (C) 2020 Johan Hovold <johan@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Jiaxun Yang <jiaxun.yang@flygoat.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Jernej Skrabec <jernej.skrabec@siol.net>
Copyright (C) 2020 Jeff LaBundy <jeff@labundy.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Jayantajit Gogoi <jayanta.gogoi525@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Jason A. Donenfeld <Jason@zx2c4.com>. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2020 Ivan Drobyshevskyi <drobyshevskyi@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Invensense, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 InvenSense, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel Corporation. Zhu Yixin <yzhu@maxlinear.com> Rahul
Tanwar <rtanwar@maxlinear.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel Corporation. Lei Chuanhua <Chuanhua.lei@intel.com> Zhu
Yixin <Yixin.zhu@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel Corporation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel Corporation Authors: Lai Poey Seng
<poey.seng.lai@intel.com> Vineetha G. Jaya Kumaran
<vineetha.g.jaya.kumaran@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel Corporation Author: Johannes Berg
<johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel Corporation Author: Heikki Krogerus
<heikki.krogerus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2020 Intel
Copyright (C) 2020 Ilya Dryomov <idryomov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (C) 2020 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2020 HiSilicon Limited.
Copyright (C) 2020 HiSilicon Limited Author: Shaokun Zhang
<zhangshaokun@hisilicon.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (C) 2020 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 HabanaLabs Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2020 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Google, Inc
Copyright (C) 2020 Google LLC. Written by David Brazdil <dbrazdil@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Google LLC. Author: David Gow <davidgow@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Google LLC.
Copyright (C) 2020 Google LLC Author: Will Deacon <will@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Google LLC Author: Quentin Perret <qperret@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Google LLC Author: Marc Zyngier <maz@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Google LLC
Copyright (C) 2020 Google Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright (C) 2020 GARDENA GmbH
Copyright (C) 2020 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Felix Fietkau <nbd@nbd.name>
Copyright (C) 2020 Facebook, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Facebook
Copyright (C) 2020 FORTH-ICS/CARV Nick Kossifidis <mick@ics.forth.gr>
Copyright (C) 2020 Eugeniu Rosca <rosca.eugeniu@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Emil Renner Berthing
Copyright (C) 2020 Dialog Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2020 Daniel W. S. Almeida, Emard <emard@softhome.net>
Copyright (C) 2020 Daniel W. S. Almeida
Copyright (C) 2020 Daniel Palmer<daniel@thingy.jp>
Copyright (C) 2020 Daniel Palmer <daniel@thingy.jp>
Copyright (C) 2020 Daniel González Cabanelas <dgcbueu@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Cristian Ciocaltea <cristian.ciocaltea@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Corellium LLC
Copyright (C) 2020 Compass Electronics Group, LLC
Copyright (C) 2020 Collabora, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Clément Péron <peron.clem@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Chuanhong Guo <gch981213@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (C) 2020 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 Chelsio Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2020 Cadence.
Copyright (C) 2020 Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 CS GROUP France
Copyright (C) 2020 Bytedance.
Copyright (C) 2020 Broadcom Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Brad Love <brad@nextdimension.cc>
Copyright (C) 2020 Bootlin Author: Paul Kocialkowski
<paul.kocialkowski@bootlin.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Birger Koblitz <mail@birger-koblitz.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Bert Vermeulen <bert@biot.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 BayLibre, SAS Author: Phong LE <ple@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 BayLibre SAS Author(s): Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 BayLibre SAS
Copyright (C) 2020 Bartosz Golaszewski <bgolaszewski@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 BAIKAL ELECTRONICS, JSC
Copyright (C) 2020 Axis Communications AB
Copyright (C) 2020 Author(s): Giulio Benetti
<giulio.benetti@benettiengineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 Arm Limited
Copyright (C) 2020 Antmicro <www.antmicro.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Ansuel Smith <ansuelsmth@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 André Hentschel <nerv@dawncrow.de>
Copyright (C) 2020 Andreas Kemnade
Copyright (C) 2020 Analog Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 Ampere Computing LLC.
Copyright (C) 2020 Amarula Solutions(India) Author: Jagan Teki
<jagan@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Amarula Solutions(India)
Copyright (C) 2020 Allied Telesis Labs
Copyright (C) 2020 Alibaba, Inc, Alex Shi
Copyright (C) 2020 Ahmad Fatoum, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2020 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Author: Suravee Suthikulpanit
<suravee.suthikulpanit@amd.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2020 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2020 - Google LLC Author: Quentin Perret <qperret@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 - Google LLC Author: Marc Zyngier <maz@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2020 - Google LLC Author: David Brazdil <dbrazdil@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 - Google Inc Author: Andrew Scull <ascull@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2020 - 2021 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2020 - 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019-present Lenovo
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 Red Hat, Inc. Daniel Bristot de Oliveira
<bristot@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 Maximilian Luz <luzmaximilian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 Infineon Technologies AG
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 Google LLC Author: Alexander Potapenko
<glider@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 Dmitry Osipenko <digetx@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 Bootlin Author: Paul Kocialkowski
<paul.kocialkowski@bootlin.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2022 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019-2021, Intel Corporation. 
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 SiFive, Inc. Paul Walmsley Greentime Hu
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Paragon Software GmbH, All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Microchip Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Maximilian Luz <luzmaximilian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Linutronix GmbH Author Kurt Kanzenbach
<kurt@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Bosch Thermotechnik GmbH, Matthias Winker
<matthias.winker@bosch.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Blaž Hrastnik <blaz@mxxn.io>, Maximilian Luz
<luzmaximilian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019-2020, Cerno
Copyright (C) 2019-2020, 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Pengutronix, Michael Tretter <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Maximilian Luz <luzmaximilian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Maciej Dudek <mdudek@internships.antmicro.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Linaro Limited
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Kamil Rakoczy <krakoczy@antmicro.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Intel Corporation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Glider bv
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Antmicro <www.antmicro.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 Antmicro <contact@antmicro.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-2020 ARM Limited or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2019-20 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Author: Dan Murphy <dmurphy@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2019-20 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2019-20 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2019-20 Sean Anderson <seanga2@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019--2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019,2021 Arm Limited Original author: Dave Martin
<Dave.Martin@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2019,2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019,2020 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright (C) 2019,2020 Lubomir Rintel
Copyright (C) 2019,2020 Linutronix GmbH Authors: Kurt Kanzenbach
<kurt@linutronix.de> Kamil Alkhouri <kamil.alkhouri@hs-offenburg.de>
Copyright (C) 2019,2020 Linutronix GmbH Authors: Kamil Alkhouri
<kamil.alkhouri@hs-offenburg.de> Kurt Kanzenbach <kurt@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019,2020 Linutronix GmbH Author Kurt Kanzenbach
<kurt@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019,2020 Hochschule Offenburg
Copyright (C) 2019, Unisoc Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019, Unisoc Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019, Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2019, Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019, Red Hat Inc, Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2019, Raspberry Pi (Trading) Ltd
Copyright (C) 2019, Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (C) 2019, Nicolas Saenz Julienne <nsaenzjulienne@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2019, Microsoft, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019, Michael Srba
Copyright (C) 2019, Jiaxun Yang <jiaxun.yang@flygoat.com>
Copyright (C) 2019, Intel Corporation Authors: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com> Rajmohan Mani <rajmohan.mani@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2019, Intel Corporation Authors: Divya Sasidharan
<divya.s.sasidharan@intel.com> Mika Westerberg <mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Rajmohan Mani <rajmohan.mani@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2019, Intel Corporation Author: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2019, Intel Corporation Author: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2019, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019, Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019, Google LLC. Author: Felix Guo <felixguoxiuping@gmail.com>
Author: Brendan Higgins <brendanhiggins@google.com> Author: Rae Moar
<rmoar@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2019, Google LLC. Author: Felix Guo <felixguoxiuping@gmail.com>
Author: Brendan Higgins <brendanhiggins@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2019, Google LLC. Author: David Gow <davidgow@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2019, Google LLC. Author: Brendan Higgins
<brendanhiggins@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2019, Google LLC.
Copyright (C) 2019, Amarula Solutions. Author: Jagan Teki
<jagan@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2019, 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019, 2021-2022 Intel Corporation Author: Luis Carlos Cobo
<luisca@cozybit.com>
Copyright (C) 2019, 2021-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019, 2020 Paul Boddie <paul@boddie.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 2019, 2020 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 周琰杰 (Zhou Yanjie) <zhouyanjie@wanyeetech.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 reMarkable AS - http://www.remarkable.com/
Copyright (C) 2019 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2019 Yangtao Li <tiny.windzz@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Yangtao Li
Copyright (C) 2019 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2019 Vlad Buslov <vladbu@mellanox.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 V. Saicharan <vsaicharan1998@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Unisoc, Inc. Author: Chunyan Zhang <chunyan.zhang@unisoc.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Trent Piepho <tpiepho@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Topic Embedded Products Author: Mike Looijmans
<mike.looijmans@topic.nl>
Copyright (C) 2019 Tom Zanussi <zanussi@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Thomas Bogendoerfer <tbogendoerfer@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
Copyright (C) 2019 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2019 The Android Open Source Project
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated Author: Peter Ujfalusi
<peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
https://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/lm3532.pdf
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Author:
Vignesh Raghavendra <vigneshr@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com Author:
Peter Ujfalusi <peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Tero
Kristo <t-kristo@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Author:
Kishon Vijay Abraham I <kishon@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Andrew F.
Davis <afd@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com Author:
Peter Ujfalusi <peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Author: Bartosz Golaszewski
<bgolaszewski@baylibre.com> Kevin Hilman <khilman@baylibre.com>)
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments Author: Bartosz Golaszewski
<bgolaszewski@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2019 Telus
Copyright (C) 2019 Tejun Heo <tj@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 TDK-InvenSense, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 System76
Copyright (C) 2019 Synopsys Author: Eugeniy Paltsev
<Eugeniy.Paltsev@synopsys.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Synaptics Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2019 Sven Van Asbroeck
Copyright (C) 2019 Sunplus Technology Inc., All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2019 Sunplus Technology Inc., All rights reseerved.
Copyright (C) 2019 Sunil Mohan Adapa <sunil@medhas.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Stephan Gerhold
Copyright (C) 2019 Stefan Wahren
Copyright (C) 2019 Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Socionext Inc. Takao Orito <orito.takao@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Socionext Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 SiFive, Inc. Wesley Terpstra Paul Walmsley Zong Li
Copyright (C) 2019 SiFive, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 SiFive
Copyright (C) 2019 Sean Young <sean@mess.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Sean Anderson <seanga2@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Sachin D. Patil <sdp.sachin@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 SUSE
Copyright (C) 2019 STMicroelectronics Author(s): Amelie Delaunay
<amelie.delaunay@st.com>.
Copyright (C) 2019 Russell King, Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. ZhiChao Yu <zhichao.yu@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Renesas Electronics Corporation Kuninori Morimoto
<kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019 Renesas Electronics Corp. Kuninori Morimoto
<kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2019 Remi Pommarel <repk@triplefau.lt>
Copyright (C) 2019 Red Hat, Inc. Author: Giuseppe Scrivano <gscrivan@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2019 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Red Hat Inc. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2019 ROHM Semiconductors
Copyright (C) 2019 Purism SPC
Copyright (C) 2019 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH Author: Teresa Remmet
<t.remmet@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Peter Hong <peter_hong@fintek.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2019 Pengutronix, Philipp Zabel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Pengutronix, Philipp Zabel
Copyright (C) 2019 Pengutronix, Michael Tretter <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Pengutronix, Michael Grzeschik <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Pengutronix, Marco Felsch <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Paweł Chmiel <pawel.mikolaj.chmiel@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Pawel Dembicki <paweldembicki@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (C) 2019 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Stefan Riedmueller
<s.riedmueller@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Orolia
Copyright (C) 2019 Oracle. All Rights Reserved. Author: Darrick J. Wong
<darrick.wong@oracle.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Ondřej Jirman <megous@megous.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Oleksij Rempel <o.rempel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Oleh Kravchenko <oleg@kaa.org.ua>
Copyright (C) 2019 Oceanic Systems (UK) Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Nicolas Saenz Julienne <nsaenzjulienne@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Nick Kossifidis <mickflemm@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Netronome Systems, Inc. 
Copyright (C) 2019 Nathan Huckleberry
Copyright (C) 2019 NXP
Copyright (C) 2019 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2019 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2019 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2019 Mohit P. Tahiliani <tahiliani@nitk.edu.in>
Copyright (C) 2019 Mohit Bhasi <mohitbhasi1998@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Mohammad Rasim <mohammad.rasim96@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2019 Microsoft Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2019 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Micro Crystal SA
Copyright (C) 2019 Micro Crystal AG Author: Alexandre Belloni
<alexandre.belloni@bootlin.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Michael Walle <michael@walle.cc>
Copyright (C) 2019 Michael Shych <mshych@mellanox.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Methode Electronics
Copyright (C) 2019 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Mellanox Techologies, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Mellanox Technologies. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2019 Mellanox Technologies
Copyright (C) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Authors: Stanley Chu <stanley.chu@mediatek.com>
Peter Wang <peter.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Zhiyong Tao <zhiyong.tao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Stanley Chu <stanley.chu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 MediaTek Inc. Author: Andy Teng <andy.teng@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Marvell.
Copyright (C) 2019 Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Martin Kaiser <martin@kaiser.cx>
Copyright (C) 2019 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Marek Behún <kabel@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Manivannan Sadhasivam <manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Manivannan Sadhasivam
Copyright (C) 2019 Macronix International Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Macronix Author: Miquèl RAYNAL <miquel.raynal@bootlin.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Luca Weiss <luca@z3ntu.xyz>
Copyright (C) 2019 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright (C) 2019 Lorenzo Bianconi <lorenzo@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Lorenzo Bianconi <lorenzo.bianconi83@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Loongson Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2019 Logic PD, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Linux Foundation <gregkh@linuxfoundation.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Linux Foundation
Copyright (C) 2019 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Linus Walleij
Copyright (C) 2019 Linaro, Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Linaro, Inc. Author: Baolin Wang <baolin.wang@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Linaro Ltd. Author: Ulf Hansson <ulf.hansson@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Linaro Ltd. Author: Masami Hiramatsu <mhiramat@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Linaro Ltd. Author: Manivannan Sadhasivam
<manivannan.sadhasivam@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Linaro Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Linaro Ltd Author: Georgi Djakov <georgi.djakov@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Linaro Ltd
Copyright (C) 2019 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (C) 2019 Leslie Monis <lesliemonis@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Kontron Electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2019 Kees Cook <keescook@chromium.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Karl Palsson <karlp@tweak.net.au>
Copyright (C) 2019 Kai-Heng Feng <kai.heng.feng@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Joe Lawrence <joe.lawrence@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Jiaxun Yang <jiaxun.yang@flygoat.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Jeroen Hofstee <jhofstee@victronenergy.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Jernej Skrabec <jernej.skrabec@siol.net>
Copyright (C) 2019 Jens Axboe
Copyright (C) 2019 Jeff LaBundy <jeff@labundy.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Jeff Kletsky
Copyright (C) 2019 Jason Yan <yanaijie@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 James.Bottomley@HansenPartnership.com
Copyright (C) 2019 Jacopo Mondi <jacopo+renesas@jmondi.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Jacek Anaszewski <jacek.anaszewski@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Isovalent, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Intel, Corp.
Copyright (C) 2019 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2019 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019 Integrated Device Technology, Inc., a Renesas Company.
Copyright (C) 2019 Igor Pecovnik <igor@armbian.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (C) 2019 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (C) 2019 IBM Corporation Author: Nayna Jain
Copyright (C) 2019 IBM Corporation Author: Claudio Carvalho Nayna Jain
Copyright (C) 2019 IBM Corporation <nayna@linux.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2019 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Haren Myneni, IBM Corp
Copyright (C) 2019 Hao Dong <halbertdong@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Hangzhou C-SKY Microsystems co.,ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 HUAWEI, Inc. https://www.huawei.com/
Copyright (C) 2019 Guillaume La Roque <glaroque@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Google, Inc. Tomasz Figa <tfiga@chromium.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Google, Inc. 
Copyright (C) 2019 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Google LLC.
Copyright (C) 2019 Google LLC <ebiggers@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Google LLC
Copyright (C) 2019 Globalscale technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2019 Georgii Staroselskii <georgiii.staroselskii@emlid.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Georgii Staroselskii <georgii.staroselskii@emlid.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Genesys Logic, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Gautam Ramakrishnan <gautamramk@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 GRATE-DRIVER project
Copyright (C) 2019 Felix Fietkau <nbd@nbd.name>
Copyright (C) 2019 Facebook
Copyright (C) 2019 FRAMOS GmbH.
Copyright (C) 2019 FORTH-ICS/CARV Nick Kossifidis <mick@ics.forth.gr>
Copyright (C) 2019 Eric Tremblay <etremblay@distech-controls.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Dialog Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2019 Dell Inc by Narendra K <Narendra.K@dell.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 David Lechner <david@lechnology.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Corentin LABBE <clabbe@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Cong Wang <cwang@twitter.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Collabora, Ltd. Boris Brezillon
<boris.brezillon@collabora.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Collabora, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Clément Péron <peron.clem@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (C) 2019 Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Christian Hewitt <christianshewitt@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Chris Brandt.
Copyright (C) 2019 Chris Brandt
Copyright (C) 2019 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Chelsio Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2019 Cadence.
Copyright (C) 2019 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Cadence
Copyright (C) 2019 Bruno Thomsen <bruno.thomsen@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Brian Masney <masneyb@onstation.org>
Copyright (C) 2019 Boundary Devices
Copyright (C) 2019 Boris Brezillon <boris.brezillon@collabora.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Bootlin.
Copyright (C) 2019 Bootlin Author: Paul Kocialkowski
<paul.kocialkowski@bootlin.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 BayLibre, SAS Author: Maxime Jourdan <mjourdan@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 BayLibre SAS Author: Bartosz Golaszewski
<bgolaszewski@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Bastien Nocera <hadess@hadess.net>
Copyright (C) 2019 Axis Communications AB
Copyright (C) 2019 Author(s): Giulio Benetti
<giulio.benetti@benettiengineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Arrikto, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2019 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 Arm Limited Original author: Dave Martin
<Dave.Martin@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Arm Limited
Copyright (C) 2019 Antmicro <www.antmicro.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Andy Newell <newella@fb.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 André Hentschel <nerv@dawncrow.de>
Copyright (C) 2019 Andreas Kemnade
Copyright (C) 2019 Andes Technology Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019 Amarula Solutions B.V. Author: Jagan Teki
<jagan@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 ASPEED Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019 ARM Ltd. Author: Lorenzo Pieralisi
<lorenzo.pieralisi@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 ARM Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2019 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2019 ARM Limited.
Copyright (C) 2019 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2019 - 2021 Daniel Palmer
Copyright (C) 2019 - 2020, Intel Corporation Authors: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com> Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2019 - 2020, 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2019 - 2020 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018~2019 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2018-2023 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018-2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Suman Anna <s-anna@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2018-2022 SiFive, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018-2022 Pavel Pisa <pisa@cmp.felk.cvut.cz>
Copyright (C) 2018-2022 Ondrej Ille <ondrej.ille@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018-2022 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2018-2022 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018-2022 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2018-2022 Google LLC Author: Alexander Potapenko
<glider@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2018-2022 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018-2021, Intel Corporation. 
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 SiFive, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Pavel Pisa <pisa@cmp.felk.cvut.cz>
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Ondrej Ille <ondrej.ille@gmail.com> self-funded
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil-cisco@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 GE Healthcare
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Collabora
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 ARM Ltd. Sudeep Holla <sudeep.holla@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018-2020, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2018-2020, 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 The Linux Foundation
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Suman Anna <s-anna@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Linaro Ltd Author: Georgi Djakov
<georgi.djakov@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Intel Corporation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Intel Corporation Author: Felipe Balbi (Intel) Author:
Jarkko Nikula <jarkko.nikula@linux.intel.com> Author: Raymond Tan
<raymond.tan@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Cadence.
Copyright (C) 2018-2020 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2018-2019, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018-2019, Bridge Systems BV
Copyright (C) 2018-2019, Bootlin
Copyright (C) 2018-2019, Artem Mygaiev
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 aQuantia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Wesley Terpstra
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Lokesh Vutla <lokeshvutla@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Lokesh Vutla <lokeshvutla@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 SiFive, Inc. Wesley Terpstra Paul Walmsley Zong Li
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 SiFive, Inc. Wesley Terpstra Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 SiFive
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 SUSE LLC.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Rockwell Collins
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Netronome Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Martin Jerabek <martin.jerabek01@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Jens Axboe
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Jason A. Donenfeld <Jason@zx2c4.com>. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 HUAWEI, Inc. https://www.huawei.com/
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Ed Brindley <kernel@maidavale.org>
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Corentin Labbe <clabbe@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Corentin LABBE <clabbe@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Cadence.
Copyright (C) 2018-2019 Cadence Design Systems.
Copyright (C) 2018-20 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2018-19 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2018-19 Sang Engineering, Wolfram Sang
Copyright (C) 2018- Marvell
Copyright (C) 2018,Tianjin KYLIN Information Technology Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018,2019,2020 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright (C) 2018,2019 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright (C) 2018, Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018, SECO Spa.
Copyright (C) 2018, SECO SpA.
Copyright (C) 2018, Richtek Technology Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018, Red Hat, Inc. (code style cleanup and fuzzing driver)
Copyright (C) 2018, Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018, Red Hat Inc, Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2018, Microsoft, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018, Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2018, Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018, LG Electronics.
Copyright (C) 2018, Jacopo Mondi <jacopo@jmondi.org>
Copyright (C) 2018, Intel, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018, Intel Corporation Author: Heikki Krogerus
<heikki.krogerus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2018, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018, Google LLC.
Copyright (C) 2018, Anup Patel. Author: Anup Patel <anup@brainfault.org>
Copyright (C) 2018, Aidilab Srl.
Copyright (C) 2018, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018, ARM
Copyright (C) 2018, 2022 Intel Corporation Authors: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com> Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2018, 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018, 2021-2023 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018, 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018, 2020-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018, 2020, 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018, 2020 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2018, 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018, 2019 Thomas Bogendoerfer <tbogendoerfer@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2018, 2019 Red Hat Inc, Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 ~ 2019 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2018 secunet Security Networks AG
Copyright (C) 2018 rw-r-r-0644
Copyright (C) 2018 metux IT consult Author: Enrico Weigelt, metux IT consult
<info@metux.net>
Copyright (C) 2018 metux IT consult Author: Enrico Weigelt <info@metux.net>
Copyright (C) 2018 exceet electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2018 emtrion GmbH
Copyright (C) 2018 embedded brains GmbH
Copyright (C) 2018 by Sean Young <sean@mess.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 by Patrick Lerda <patrick9876@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2018 Zoro Li
Copyright (C) 2018 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2018 ZTE.
Copyright (C) 2018 Xue Liu <liuxuenetmail@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 William Breathitt Gray
Copyright (C) 2018 Western Digital Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 WMWare Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Vladimir Zapolskiy <vz@mleia.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Vasily Khoruzhick <anarsoul@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Vadim Pasternak <vadimp@mellanox.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Uladzislau Rezki (Sony) <urezki@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Toradex AG
Copyright (C) 2018 Topic Embedded Products Author: Mike Looijmans
<mike.looijmans@topic.nl>
Copyright (C) 2018 Tony Lindgren <tony@atomide.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
Copyright (C) 2018 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018 The Chromium OS Authors.
Copyright (C) 2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Author:
Tomi Valkeinen <tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Author:
Jyri Sarha <jsarha@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com Author:
Peter Ujfalusi <peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Author:
Benoit Parrot <bparrot@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2018 Texas Instruments Author: Kishon Vijay Abraham I
<kishon@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2018 Synopsys, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Synopsys Author: Eugeniy Paltsev
<Eugeniy.Paltsev@synopsys.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Synaptics Incorporated Author: Jisheng Zhang
<jszhang@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Synaptics Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2018 Stefan Wahren <stefan.wahren@i2se.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Stefan Agner <stefan@agner.ch>
Copyright (C) 2018 Stanislaw Gruszka <stf_xl@wp.pl>
Copyright (C) 2018 Spreadtrum, Inc. Author: Chunyan Zhang
<chunyan.zhang@unisoc.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Song Qiang <songqiang1304521@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 SolidRun ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Socionext Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Simon Shields <simon@lineageos.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 SiFive
Copyright (C) 2018 Sean Young <sean@mess.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (C) 2018 STMicroelectronics Author(s): Amelie Delaunay
<amelie.delaunay@st.com>.
Copyright (C) 2018 Russell King, Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. Jeffy Chen <jeffy.chen@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. Alpha Lin <alpha.lin@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. Alpha Lin <Alpha.Lin@rock-
chips.com> Jeffy Chen <jeffy.chen@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018 Robert Bosch Power Tools GmbH
Copyright (C) 2018 Richard Cochran <richardcochran@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Renesas Electronics Europe Limited
Copyright (C) 2018 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2018 Renesas Electronics
Copyright (C) 2018 Rene Kjellerup <rk.katana.steel@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Red Hat. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018 Red Hat, Inc., Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2018 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Ravi Bangoria, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 Rafał Miłecki <rafal@milecki.pl>
Copyright (C) 2018 ROHM Semiconductors
Copyright (C) 2018 Prevas A/S
Copyright (C) 2018 Phil Reid <preid@electromag.com.au>
Copyright (C) 2018 Pengutronix, Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Pengutronix, Philipp Zabel
Copyright (C) 2018 Pengutronix, Marco Felsch <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Paul Walmsley <paul@pwsan.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Paul Kocialkowski <paul.kocialkowski@bootlin.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Paul Cercueil Author: Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (C) 2018 Paolo Pisati <p.pisati@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Stefan Riedmueller
<s.riedmueller@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Enrico Scholz
<enrico.scholz@sigma-chemnitz.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Christian Hemp
<c.hemp@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 PHYTEC Messtechnik Author: Christian Hemp <c.hemp@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Overkiz SAS
Copyright (C) 2018 Oracle. All Rights Reserved. Author: Darrick J. Wong
<darrick.wong@oracle.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Olimex Ltd. Author: Stefan Mavrodiev <stefan@olimex.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Oleh Kravchenko <oleg@kaa.org.ua>
Copyright (C) 2018 Octavo Systems LLC - https://www.octavosystems.com/
Copyright (C) 2018 O.S. Systems Software LTDA.
Copyright (C) 2018 Nuvoton Technology Corp
Copyright (C) 2018 Nuvoton Technologies, Avi Fishman <avi.fishman@nuvoton.com>
<avifishman70@gmail.com> Tomer Maimon <tomer.maimon@nuvoton.com>
<tmaimon77@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Nuvoton Technologies tali.perry@nuvoton.com
Copyright (C) 2018 Nicolas Saenz Julienne <nsaenzjulienne@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Netronome Systems, Inc. 
Copyright (C) 2018 Netronome Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Netronome Systems, Inc
Copyright (C) 2018 Namjae Jeon <linkinjeon@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 NXP. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018 NXP Semiconductor.
Copyright (C) 2018 NXP
Copyright (C) 2018 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. Author: Ajay Gupta
<ajayg@nvidia.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 NOGUCHI Hiroshi
Copyright (C) 2018 Microchip Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2018 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Microchip Technology Inc, Codrin Ciubotariu
<codrin.ciubotariu@microchip.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Microchip Technology
Copyright (C) 2018 Michael Neuling, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2018 Mellanox Technologies.
Copyright (C) 2018 Mellanox Technologies
Copyright (C) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Zhiyong Tao <zhiyong.tao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Wenzhen Yu <Wenzhen Yu@mediatek.com>
Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Zhiyong Tao <zhiyong.tao@mediatek.com> Hongzhou.Yang
<hongzhou.yang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Maxime Jourdan <mjourdan@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Maxime Jourdan <maxi.jourdan@wanadoo.fr>
Copyright (C) 2018 Matt Ranostay <matt.ranostay@konsulko.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Matan Ziv-Av <matan@svgalib.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Masami Hiramatsu <mhiramat@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Masahiro Yamada <yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Marvell.
Copyright (C) 2018 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2018 Martin Willi
Copyright (C) 2018 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Martin Ayotte <martinayotte@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Markku-Juhani O. Saarinen <mjos@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2018 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Marek Behún <kabel@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Marcus Folkesson <marcus.folkesson@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Macronix International Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2018 MOXA Inc. - https://www.moxa.com/
Copyright (C) 2018 MOSER-BAER AG
Copyright (C) 2018 MIPS Tech, LLC Author: Matt Redfearn <matt.redfearn@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 MIPS Tech, LLC
Copyright (C) 2018 Lucas A. M. Magalhães <lucmaga@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright (C) 2018 Lorenzo Bianconi <lorenzo.bianconi83@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Logic PD, Inc - https://www.logicpd.com/
Copyright (C) 2018 Linus Wallej <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org> 
Copyright (C) 2018 Linaro, Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Linaro Ltd
Copyright (C) 2018 Linaro Limited Author: AKASHI Takahiro
<takahiro.akashi@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Linaro Limited
Copyright (C) 2018 Lemonage Software GmbH Author: Lars Pöschel
<poeschel@lemonage.de> All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018 Laird, 2018 Ben Whitten <ben.whitten@lairdtech.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Laird
Copyright (C) 2018 Kontron Electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2018 Kirill Marinushkin <kmarinushkin@birdec.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Kent Gustavsson <kent@minoris.se>
Copyright (C) 2018 KVASER AB, Sweden. All rights reserved. Kvaser
Copyright (C) 2018 KVASER AB, Sweden. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018 Josef Bacik
Copyright (C) 2018 Jonathan McDowell <noodles@earth.li>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jon Nettleton <jon@solid-run.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Johannes Thumshirn <jth@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Johan Hovold <johan@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Joel Fernandes (Google) <joel@joelfernandes.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Joe Lawrence <joe.lawrence@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jerome Brunet, Baylibre SAS <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jernej Skrabec <jernej.skrabec@siol.net>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jeff LaBundy <jeff@labundy.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jan Breuer <jan.breuer@jaybee.cz>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jagan Teki <jagan@openedev.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jacopo Mondi <jacopo@jmondi.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jacopo Mondi <jacopo+renesas@jmondi.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Jacob Feder
Copyright (C) 2018 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2018 Intel Corporation Author: Rafael J. Wysocki
<rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Intel Corporation Author: Heikki Krogerus
<heikki.krogerus@linux.intel.com> Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Intel Corporation Author: Heikki Krogerus
<heikki.krogerus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2018 Intel Corp
Copyright (C) 2018 Integrated Device Technology, Inc
Copyright (C) 2018 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (C) 2018 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (C) 2018 Icenowy Zheng
Copyright (C) 2018 IVI Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2018 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 IBM Corp. All rights reserved. Author: Alexey Kardashevskiy
<aik@ozlabs.ru>
Copyright (C) 2018 Himanshu Jha <himanshujha199640@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Hao Zhang <hao5781286@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Hangzhou C-SKY Microsystems co.,ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018 HUAWEI, Inc. https://www.huawei.com/
Copyright (C) 2018 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Google LLC
Copyright (C) 2018 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Florian Fainelli <f.fainelli@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Felix Fietkau <nbd@nbd.name>
Copyright (C) 2018 Facebook Author: Yonghong Song <yhs@fb.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Facebook
Copyright (C) 2018 Exceet Electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2018 Etnaviv Project
Copyright (C) 2018 Engicam S.r.l.
Copyright (C) 2018 EPAM Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 EETS GmbH - http://www.eets.ch/
Copyright (C) 2018 Digital Devices GmbH Marcus Metzler <mocm@metzlerbros.de>
Ralph Metzler <rjkm@metzlerbros.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Diego Rondini <diego.rondini@kynetics.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Davidlohr Bueso.
Copyright (C) 2018 David Lechner <david@lechnology.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 David Abdurachmanov <david.abdurachmanov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Daniel Mack
Copyright (C) 2018 DENX Software Engineering GmbH, Niel Fourie <lusus@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 DENX Software Engineering GmbH, Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2018 Cryptera A/S
Copyright (C) 2018 Collabora, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Christophe Leroy CS Systemes d'Information.
Copyright (C) 2018 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (C) 2018 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (C) 2018 Chris Brandt
Copyright (C) 2018 Chengdu Haiguang IC Design Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Chelsio Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018 Cavium Inc. Author: Ganapatrao Kulkarni
<gkulkarni@cavium.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Canonical Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018 Cambridge Greys Ltd
Copyright (C) 2018 Cadence Design Systems.
Copyright (C) 2018 Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 CMC NV
Copyright (C) 2018 Broadcom. All Rights Reserved. The term "Broadcom" refers to
Broadcom Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
Copyright (C) 2018 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2018 Bootlin Mylène Josserand <mylene.josserand@bootlin.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Bootlin
Copyright (C) 2018 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 BayLibre, SAS Author: Maxime Jourdan <mjourdan@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 BayLibre, SAS
Copyright (C) 2018 BayLibre SAS Author: Bartosz Golaszewski
<bgolaszewski@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 BTicino
Copyright (C) 2018 Ayman Bagabas <ayman.bagabas@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Axentia Technologies AB
Copyright (C) 2018 Avnet, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 Author: Mathieu Othacehe <m.othacehe@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Author: Jeff LaBundy <jeff@labundy.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Arm Limited. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018 Arcx Inc
Copyright (C) 2018 Aquantia Corp.
Copyright (C) 2018 Anup Patel <anup@brainfault.org>
Copyright (C) 2018 Andreas Brauchli <andreas.brauchli@sensirion.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Andes Technology Corporation <zong@andestech.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Andes Technology Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2018 Amarula Solutions B.V. Author: Jagan Teki
<jagan@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Amarula Solutions B.V.
Copyright (C) 2018 Amarula Solutions Author: Jagan Teki
<jagan@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Aleksandr Aleksandrov <aleksandr.aleksandrov@emlid.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Authors: Christian König
<christian.koenig@amd.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2018 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2018 ARM Ltd, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018 ARM Limited, All Rights Reserved. Author: Marc Zyngier
<marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 ARM Limited or its affiliates. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2018 ARM Limited or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2018 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2018 - Arm Ltd
Copyright (C) 2018 - 2023 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 - 2022 Intel Corporation Authors: Luis Carlos Cobo
<luisca@cozybit.com> Javier Cardona <javier@cozybit.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 - 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 - 2021 Intel Corporation Author: Rafael J. Wysocki
<rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2018 - 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 - 2019, 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 - 2019, 2021-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 - 2019, 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2018 - 2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Author: Kishon Vijay Abraham I <kishon@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2017-2022 Willy Tarreau <w@1wt.eu>
Copyright (C) 2017-2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Suman Anna <s-anna@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2017-2022 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017-2022 Jason A. Donenfeld <Jason@zx2c4.com>. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017-2022 Google LLC Author: Alexander Potapenko
<glider@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2017-2022 Broadcom. All Rights Reserved. The term “Broadcom”
refers to Broadcom Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
Copyright (C) 2017-2022 Broadcom. All Rights Reserved. The term “Broadcom”
refers to Broadcom Inc and/or its subsidiaries.
Copyright (C) 2017-2022 Broadcom. All Rights Reserved. The term "Broadcom"
refers to Broadcom Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
Copyright (C) 2017-2022 Broadcom Inc. mailto: mpi3mr-linuxdrv.pdl@broadcom.com
Copyright (C) 2017-2021 Willy Tarreau <w@1wt.eu>
Copyright (C) 2017-2021 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017-2021 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017-2021 Google LLC Author: Alexander Potapenko
<glider@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2017-2020 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Jaehoon Chung
<jh80.chung@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2017-2020 Niklas Söderlund
Copyright (C) 2017-2020 Mellanox Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017-2020 Laurent Pinchart
Copyright (C) 2017-2020 Kieran Bingham
Copyright (C) 2017-2020 Jason A. Donenfeld <Jason@zx2c4.com>. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017-2020 Jacopo Mondi
Copyright (C) 2017-2020 Hilisicon Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.huawei.com
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Samuel Neves <sneves@dei.uc.pt>. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Niklas Söderlund
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Netronome Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Laurent Pinchart
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Kieran Bingham
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Jean Delvare
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Jason A. Donenfeld <Jason@zx2c4.com>. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Jacopo Mondi
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017-2019 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017-2018, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2017-2018, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017-2018, Bootlin
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Willy Tarreau <w@1wt.eu>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 SiFive
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Samuel Neves <sneves@dei.uc.pt>. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Samuel Holland <samuel@sholland.org>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 SUSE, Frederic Weisbecker
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 SUSE
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Ryan Mounce <ryan@mounce.com.au>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Overkiz SAS Author: Mickael Gardet
<m.gardet@overkiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Netronome Systems, Inc. 
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Netronome Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 NXP
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. Author: Ajay
Gupta <ajayg@nvidia.com>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Microchip Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Laurent Pinchart
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Jonathan Neuschäfer
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Jason A. Donenfeld <Jason@zx2c4.com>. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Jacopo Mondi <jacopo+renesas@jmondi.org>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Intel Corporation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Hilisicon Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.huawei.com
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 HiSilicon Co., Ltd. http://www.hisilicon.com
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 HUAWEI, Inc. https://www.huawei.com/
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Etnaviv Project
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Digital Devices GmbH Ralph Metzler <rjkm@metzlerbros.de>
Marcus Metzler <mocm@metzlerbros.de>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Digital Devices GmbH Marcus Metzler
<mocm@metzlerbros.de> Ralph Metzler <rjkm@metzlerbros.de>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Corentin Labbe <clabbe@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Cogent Embedded Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 CTERA Networks. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Broadcom. All Rights Reserved. The term “Broadcom”
refers to Broadcom Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Bootlin
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Bartosz Golaszewski <brgl@bgdev.pl>
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 ASIX
Copyright (C) 2017-2018 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2017-19 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017-18 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2017,2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017,2018 Microchip Technology, Author: Eugen Hristev
<eugen.hristev@microchip.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, Topic Embedded Products
Copyright (C) 2017, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017, Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Authors: Arnaud
Pouliquen <arnaud.pouliquen@st.com> Olivier Moysan <olivier.moysan@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Authors: Amelie
Delaunay <amelie.delaunay@st.com> Fabrice Gasnier <fabrice.gasnier@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author: Fabrice
Gasnier <fabrice.gasnier@st.com>.
Copyright (C) 2017, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author: Fabrice
Gasnier <fabrice.gasnier@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author: Arnaud
Pouliquen <arnaud.pouliquen@st.com>.
Copyright (C) 2017, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author(s): Olivier
Moysan <olivier.moysan@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) 2017, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author(s): Lionel
DEBIEVE <lionel.debieve@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author(s): Arnaud
Pouliquen <arnaud.pouliquen@st.com>.
Copyright (C) 2017, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author(s): Arnaud
Pouliquen <arnaud.pouliquen@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author(s): Amelie
Delaunay <amelie.delaunay@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, Red Hat Inc, Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2017, Maarten ter Huurne <maarten@treewalker.org>
Copyright (C) 2017, Leopard Imaging, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017, Intel Corporation Authors: Michael Jamet
<michael.jamet@intel.com> Mika Westerberg <mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, Intel Corporation Authors: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com> Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, Intel Corporation Authors: Amir Levy
<amir.jer.levy@intel.com> Michael Jamet <michael.jamet@intel.com> Mika
Westerberg <mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, Intel Corporation Author: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, Intel Corporation Author: Heikki Krogerus
<heikki.krogerus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017, Fresco Logic, Incorporated.
Copyright (C) 2017, Free Electrons
Copyright (C) 2017, EETS GmbH, Felix Brack <fb@ltec.ch>
Copyright (C) 2017, Adaptrum, Inc. Written by Alexandru Gagniuc <alex.g at
adaptrum.com>
Copyright (C) 2017, 2018, 2019, 2021 BMW Car IT GmbH Author: Viktor Rosendahl
(viktor.rosendahl@bmw.de)
Copyright (C) 2017 exceet electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2017 by Stefano Stabellini <stefano@aporeto.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 by Stafford Horne (shorne@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2017 by Changbin Du <changbin.du@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 bjb@mojatatu.com
Copyright (C) 2017 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2017 Zodiac Inflight Innovation
Copyright (C) 2017 Zihao Yu
Copyright (C) 2017 Zhi Mao <zhi.mao@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Xilinx, Inc Author: Miquel Raynal <miquel.raynal@bootlin.com>
Punnaiah Choudary Kalluri <punnaia@xilinx.com> Naga Sureshkumar Relli
<nagasure@xilinx.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 XiaojingZhu <zhuxiaoj@ict.ac.cn>
Copyright (C) 2017 Willy Tarreau <w@1wt.eu>  Atsushi Nemoto's
Copyright (C) 2017 Willy Tarreau <w@1wt.eu>
Copyright (C) 2017 William Breathitt Gray
Copyright (C) 2017 Western Digital Corporation or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2017 VMware, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 Touchless Biometric Systems AG Tomas Novotny
<tomas@novotny.cz>
Copyright (C) 2017 Topic Embedded Products Author: Mike Looijmans
<mike.looijmans@topic.nl>
Copyright (C) 2017 Tony Lindgren <tony@atomide.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Tomohiro Yoshidomi <sylph23k@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 The Chromium OS Authors <chromium-os-dev@chromium.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Dave
Gerlach
Copyright (C) 2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Keerthy
<j-keerthy@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2017 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Texas Instruments Author: Kishon Vijay Abraham I
<kishon@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 T-Platforms. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 T-Platforms All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 Synopsys.
Copyright (C) 2017 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2017 Synopsys
Copyright (C) 2017 Sudip Mukherjee, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 Steven Rostedt, VMware Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Stefano Stabellini <stefano@aporeto.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Stefan Wahren <stefan.wahren@i2se.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Stafford Horne <shorne@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Spreadtrum, Inc. Author: Chunyan Zhang
<chunyan.zhang@spreadtrum.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Spreadtrum - http://www.spreadtrum.com
Copyright (C) 2017 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Socionext Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 SiFive, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 SiFive
Copyright (C) 2017 Sebastian Reichel <sre@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Sean Young <sean@mess.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Sean Wang <sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Sanechips Technology Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: Marek Szyprowski
<m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Andrzej Pietrasiewicz
<andrzejtp2010@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Samsung Electronics Author: Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Samsung Electronics
Copyright (C) 2017 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Robert Jarzmik
Copyright (C) 2017 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2017 Renesas Electronics America, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Red Hat. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 Red Hat, Inc., Frederic Weisbecker
Copyright (C) 2017 Red Hat, Inc. Author: Stefan Hajnoczi <stefanha@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2017 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Red Hat
Copyright (C) 2017 Raspberry Pi Trading Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Rafał Miłecki <rafal@milecki.pl>
Copyright (C) 2017 Radioavionica Corporation Author: Alex A. Mihaylov
<minimumlaw@rambler.ru>
Copyright (C) 2017 Quentin Schulz <quentin.schulz@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Priit Laes <plaes@plaes.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Phil Reid
Copyright (C) 2017 Peter Meerwald-Stadler <pmeerw@pmeerw.net>
Copyright (C) 2017 Pengutronix, Philipp Zabel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Pengutronix, Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Pengutronix, Juergen Borleis <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Pengutronix, Juergen Borleis <jbe@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Pengutronix, Jan Luebbe <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Paolo Valente <paolo.valente@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Wadim Egorov
<w.egorov@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 Oracle. All Rights Reserved. Author: Darrick J. Wong
<darrick.wong@oracle.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Oracle. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 Oracle Corporation Authors: Hans de Goede
<hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Oracle Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017 Olli Salonen <olli.salonen@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2017 Oleh Kravchenko <oleg@kaa.org.ua>
Copyright (C) 2017 NutsBoard.Org
Copyright (C) 2017 Noralf Trønnes
Copyright (C) 2017 Nicira, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 NextThing Co
Copyright (C) 2017 Netronome Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 National Instruments Corp.
Copyright (C) 2017 Narcisa Vasile <narcisaanamaria12@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 NXP Semiconductors. Author: Marco Franchi
<marco.franchi@nxp.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 NXP
Copyright (C) 2017 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 Moxa Inc. - https://www.moxa.com/
Copyright (C) 2017 Mobica Limited
Copyright (C) 2017 Milo Kim <woogyom.kim@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Microchip/Atmel, 2017 Wenyou Yang <wenyou.yang@microchip.com>
2017 Ludovic Desroches <ludovic.desroches@microchip.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Microchip Technology Inc. Tristram Ha
<Tristram.Ha@microchip.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 MediaTek, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Maxim Integrated
Copyright (C) 2017 Matt Ranostay <matt.ranostay@konsulko.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Marvell Author: Miquel RAYNAL <miquel.raynal@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2017 Martin Kaiser <martin@kaiser.cx>
Copyright (C) 2017 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut+renesas@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Marcus Cooper <codekipper@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Madhavan Srinivasan, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2017 MOXA Inc. - https://www.moxa.com/
Copyright (C) 2017 Luxul Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Lukas Wunner <lukas@wunner.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Luis R. Rodriguez <mcgrof@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Lucas Bates <lucasb@mojatatu.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Linus Walleij
Copyright (C) 2017 Linaro, Ltd., Rob Herring <robh@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Linaro, Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Linaro Ltd. Author: Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Linaro Ltd. Author: Ard Biesheuvel
<ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Linaro Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Linaro Limited Author: AKASHI Takahiro
<takahiro.akashi@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Linaro Limited
Copyright (C) 2017 Liam Breck <kernel@networkimprov.net>
Copyright (C) 2017 Landen Chao <landen.chao@mediatek.com> Sean Wang
<sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 KUNBUS GmbH
Copyright (C) 2017 Juergen Fitschen <me@jue.yt>
Copyright (C) 2017 Josh Poimboeuf <jpoimboe@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Jonathan Liu <net147@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 John David Anglin <dave.anglin@bell.net>
Copyright (C) 2017 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Johan Hovold <johan@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Joe Lawrence <joe.lawrence@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Jerome Brunet <jbrunet@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Jernej Skrabec <jernej.skrabec@siol.net>
Copyright (C) 2017 Jelle van der Waa <jelle@vdwaa.nl>
Copyright (C) 2017 James.Bottomley@HansenPartnership.com
Copyright (C) 2017 Jagan Teki <jteki@openedev.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Jagan Teki <jagan@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Jacopo Mondi <jacopo+renesas@jmondi.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Jacopo Mondi
Copyright (C) 2017 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (C) 2017 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2017 Intel Corporation Author: Pierre-Louis Bossart <pierre-
louis.bossart@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Intel Corporation Author: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Intel Corporation Author: Heikki Krogerus
<heikki.krogerus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017 Intel Corp. Author: Len Brown <len.brown@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Intel Corp Author: Subhransu S. Prusty <
subhransu.s.prusty@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Intel Corp Author: Jaikrishna Nemallapudi
<jaikrishnax.nemallapudi@intel.com> Author: Subhransu S. Prusty
<subhransu.s.prusty@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Impinj, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Impinj
Copyright (C) 2017 Imagination Technologies, Ltd. Author: Aleksandar Markovic
<aleksandar.markovic@imgtec.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Imagination Technologies Author: Paul Burton
<paul.burton@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Ideas on Board <kieran.bingham@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (C) 2017 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (C) 2017 IBM Corporation (Michael Neuling, Andrew Donnellan)
Copyright (C) 2017 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2017 Huan Biao <huan.biao@amlogic.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Horms Solutions, Simon Horman
Copyright (C) 2017 Horms Solutions Ltd., Simon Horman
Copyright (C) 2017 Hisilicon Limited, All Rights Reserved. Author: Zhichang Yuan
<yuanzhichang@hisilicon.com> Author: Zou Rongrong <zourongrong@huawei.com>
Author: John Garry <john.garry@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 HiSilicon Limited, All Rights Reserved. Author: Gabriele
Paoloni <gabriele.paoloni@huawei.com> Author: Zhichang Yuan
<yuanzhichang@hisilicon.com> Author: John Garry <john.garry@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 HiSilicon Limited, All Rights Reserved. Author: Gabriele
Paoloni <gabriele.paoloni@huawei.com> Author: Zhichang Yuan
<yuanzhichang@hisilicon.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 HiSilicon Limited Author: Shaokun Zhang
<zhangshaokun@hisilicon.com> Anurup M <anurup.m@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 HiSilicon Limited Author: Anurup M <anurup.m@huawei.com>
Shaokun Zhang <zhangshaokun@hisilicon.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 HiSilicon Electronics Co., Ltd. https://www.huawei.com
Copyright (C) 2017 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Heiner Kallweit
Copyright (C) 2017 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Hari Bathini, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Hans P. Moller <hmoller@uc.cl>
Copyright (C) 2017 Hamster Tian <haotia@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Google, Inc. Thiebaud Weksteen <tweek@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Google, Inc. Matthew Garrett <mjg59@google.com> Thiebaud
Weksteen <tweek@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Google, Inc. Author: Stephen Barber <smbarber@chromium.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Google, Inc. Author: Gwendal Grignou <gwendal@chromium.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Google, Inc. Author: Benson Leung <bleung@chromium.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Google, Inc
Copyright (C) 2017 Google
Copyright (C) 2017 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2017 Gilad Ben-Yossef <gilad@benyossef.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Gateworks Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Jacob Chen <jacob-
chen@iotwrt.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. Jacob Chen
<jacob2.chen@rock-chips.com> Shunqian Zheng <zhengsq@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (C) 2017 Free Electrons, Quentin Schulz <quentin.schulz@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Free Electrons Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Free Electrons
Copyright (C) 2017 Florian Fainelli <f.fainelli@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Florian Eckert <fe@dev.tdt.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Finn Thain
Copyright (C) 2017 Facebook. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 Facebook Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Facebook Author: Roman Gushchin <guro@fb.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Facebook
Copyright (C) 2017 Etnaviv Project
Copyright (C) 2017 Eric Nelson
Copyright (C) 2017 Eric Anholt
Copyright (C) 2017 Engicam S.r.l.
Copyright (C) 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc. Authors: David Yang
<yangxiaohua@everest-semi.com>, Daniel Drake <drake@endlessm.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Endless Mobile, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Dialog Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2017 Dennis Zhou <dennis@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Dell, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Dell Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 David Lechner <david@lechnology.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 DENX Software Engineering
Copyright (C) 2017 Cumulus Networks
Copyright (C) 2017 Corentin Labbe <clabbe.montjoie@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Cogent Embedded, Inc. <source@cogentembedded.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Cogent Embedded Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (C) 2017 Chris Mi <chrism@mellanox.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Chris Brandt
Copyright (C) 2017 Chinamobile, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Chen-Yu Tsai Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Chen Liqin <liqin.chen@sunplusct.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Chelsio Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 Centrum Embedded Systems, Jia-Bin Huang <jb@ces.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2017 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Cadence Design Systems - https://www.cadence.com
Copyright (C) 2017 Broadcom Author: Florian Fainelli <f.fainelli@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2017 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 BayLibre SAS
Copyright (C) 2017 Bartosz Golaszewski <brgl@bgdev.pl>
Copyright (C) 2017 Axis Communications AB
Copyright (C) 2017 Axentia Technologies AB
Copyright (C) 2017 Atmel
Copyright (C) 2017 Arm Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 Arasan Chip Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Antony Antony <antony@phenome.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 Andrea Adami <andrea.adami@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Andes Technology Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2017 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2017 Amarula Solutions B.V. Author: Jagan Teki
<jagan@amarulasolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Allied Telesis Labs
Copyright (C) 2017 Alexandre Belloni
Copyright (C) 2017 Alexander Graf <agraf@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Alan Stern <stern@rowland.harvard.edu>, Andrea Parri
<parri.andrea@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 Alan Stern <stern@rowland.harvard.edu>
Copyright (C) 2017 Alan Mizrahi, alan at mizrahi dot com dot ve
Copyright (C) 2017 Ahmet Inan <inan@distec.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 Aditya Prayoga <aditya@kobol.io>
Copyright (C) 2017 ARM Ltd. Author: Marc Zyngier <marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2017 ARM Limited or its affiliates. Written by Gilad Ben-Yossef
<gilad@benyossef.com>
Copyright (C) 2017 ARM Limited or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2017 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2017 - Cambridge Greys Ltd
Copyright (C) 2017 - Cambridge Greys Limited
Copyright (C) 2017 - 2021 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 - 2020 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2017 - 2019 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 - 2019 Cambridge Greys Limited
Copyright (C) 2017 - 2018 Sebastian Reichel <sre@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2017 - 2018 Sandvik Mining and Construction Oy
Copyright (C) 2017 - 2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2017 - 2018 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2017 - 2018 Bosch Sensortec GmbH
Copyright (C) 2016-2022 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016-2022 Jason A. Donenfeld <Jason@zx2c4.com>. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016-2022 Dmitry Osipenko <digetx@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2021, AngeloGioacchino Del Regno
angelogioacchino.delregno@somainline.org>
Copyright (C) 2016-2021 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016-2021 Microchip Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2021 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016-2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016-2020 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016-2020 Mellanox Technologies
Copyright (C) 2016-2020 Mauro Carvalho Chehab maintained-by: Mauro Carvalho
Chehab <mchehab+huawei@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2016-2020 Arm Limited
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Netronome Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Microchip Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Mauro Carvalho Chehab maintained-by: Mauro Carvalho
Chehab <mchehab+samsung@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Linaro, Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 GRATE-DRIVER project
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Corentin LABBE <clabbe.montjoie@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (C) 2016-2019 Bootlin
Copyright (C) 2016-2018, Allwinner Technology CO., LTD.
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Vladimir Zapolskiy <vz@mleia.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Vadim Pasternak <vadimp@mellanox.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Texas Instruments, Inc. Dave Gerlach <d-gerlach@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Dave Gerlach
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Author: Jyri Sarha <jsarha@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 T-Platforms JSC All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 René van Dorst <opensource@vdorst.com>. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Netronome Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Mellanox Technologies
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Matt Ranostay Author: <matt.ranostay@konsulko.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Linaro, Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Etnaviv Project
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 EPAM Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Cirrus Logic
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Author: Matt Ranostay <matt.ranostay@konsulko.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Texas Instruments, Inc. Dave Gerlach <d-gerlach@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Nishanth Menon <nm@ti.com> Dave Gerlach <d-gerlach@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Author: Tracy Yi <tracy-yi@ti.com> Frank Shi <shifu0704@thundersoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Author: Andreas Dannenberg <dannenberg@ti.com> Andrew F. Davis <afd@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Dave
Gerlach
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Texas Instruments Inc. Dave Gerlach
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com> Kunihiko Hayashi
<hayashi.kunihiko@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Pengutronix, Philipp Zabel <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Oracle Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Milan Broz
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Mikulas Patocka
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Micron Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Maxim Integrated Products Author: Ryan Lee
<ryans.lee@maximintegrated.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Linaro Ltd., Rob Herring <robh@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia - RBCS - EDL Robotics,
Brain and Cognitive Sciences department Electronic Design Laboratory
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Imagination Technologies Author: Paul Burton
<paul.burton@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 INRIA and Microsoft Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 HiSilicon Co., Ltd. http://www.hisilicon.com
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 EPAM Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Dmitry Osipenko <digetx@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Cogent Embedded Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Cirrus Logic
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Broadcom Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Broadcom Limited.
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2016-2017 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016-2014 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2016-19 Sang Engineering, Wolfram Sang
Copyright (C) 2016-19 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016-17, Intel Corporation. Author: Guneshwor Singh
<guneshwor.o.singh@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-17, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2016-17 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2016-17 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016-17 Jacopo Mondi
Copyright (C) 2016-17 Intel Corp
Copyright (C) 2016-17 Horms Solutions, Simon Horman
Copyright (C) 2016,2021 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016,2019 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016,2017 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016,2017 ARM Limited, All Rights Reserved. Author: Marc Zyngier
<marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2016, The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016, Synopsys, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016, Sven Schmidt <4sschmid@informatik.uni-hamburg.de>
Copyright (C) 2016, Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016, Sony Mobile Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016, Semihalf Author: Tomasz Nowicki <tn@semihalf.com>
Copyright (C) 2016, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author: Fabrice
Gasnier <fabrice.gasnier@st.com>.
Copyright (C) 2016, STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved Author(s): Olivier
Moysan <olivier.moysan@st.com> for STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) 2016, Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2016, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016, Microsoft, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016, Mario Lange <mario_lange@gmx.net>
Copyright (C) 2016, Linaro Ltd. Author: Daniel Lezcano
<daniel.lezcano@linaro.org> Fu Wei <fu.wei@linaro.org> Hanjun Guo
<hanjun.guo@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016, Linaro Ltd - Daniel Lezcano <daniel.lezcano@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016, LG Electronics
Copyright (C) 2016, Jelle van der Waa <jelle@vdwaa.nl>
Copyright (C) 2016, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016, Intel Corporation Authors: Aaron Lu <aaron.lu@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016, Intel Corporation Author: Rafael J. Wysocki
<rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016, Intel Corporation Author: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016, Intel Corporation Author: Irina Tirdea
<irina.tirdea@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016, Intel Corporation Author: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016, Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016, HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016, Florian Fainelli <f.fainelli@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016, DAQRI, LLC. Author: Tony Makkiel <tony.makkiel@daqri.com>
Copyright (C) 2016, Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2016, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016, ARM Ltd. Written by: Juri Lelli, ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016, 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016, 2020 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2016, 2020 PHYTEC Messtechnik Author: Christian Hemp
<c.hemp@phytec.de> Author: Stefan Riedmueller <s.riedmueller@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2016, 2018 Author: Matt Ranostay <matt.ranostay@konsulko.com>
Copyright (C) 2016, 2017, 2018 Sony Semiconductor Solutions Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016, 2017 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 secunet Security Networks AG Author: Steffen Klassert
<steffen.klassert@secunet.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2016 Xilinx, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Wolf-Entwicklungen Marcus Wolf <linux@wolf-entwicklungen.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 William Breathitt Gray
Copyright (C) 2016 Western Digital
Copyright (C) 2016 Wang Nan <wangnan0@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Uwe Kleine-König <uwe@kleine-koenig.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Toradex AG
Copyright (C) 2016 Tony Lindgren <tony@atomide.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Tomasz Chilinski <tomasz.chilinski@chilan.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Tomas Hlavacek <tmshlvkc@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Tom Tsai (Tom_Tsai@fintek.com.tw)
Copyright (C) 2016 Thomas Gleixner.
Copyright (C) 2016 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Author:
Tomi Valkeinen <tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Andrew
F. Davis <afd@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Keerthy
<j-keerthy@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Author:
Tomi Valkeinen <tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2016 Texas Instruments Author: Jyri Sarha <jsarha@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 TQ-Systems GmbH Author: Markus Niebel <Markus.Niebel@tq-
group.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 T-Platforms. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2016 Synopsys Jose Abreu <joabreu@synopsys.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Synopsys Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Synopsys
Copyright (C) 2016 SuSE. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Stephan Mueller <smueller@chronox.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Stefan Wahren <stefan.wahren@i2se.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Spencer E. Olson <olsonse@umich.edu>
Copyright (C) 2016 Song Liu <songliubraving@fb.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Simon Guo, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2016 SiFive
Copyright (C) 2016 Shuah Khan <shuahkh@osg.samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Shawn Lin <shawn.lin@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Sergio Prado (sergio.prado@e-labworks.com)
Copyright (C) 2016 Sergei Ianovich
Copyright (C) 2016 Sensirion AG, Switzerland Author: David Frey
<david.frey@sensirion.com> Author: Pascal Sachs <pascal.sachs@sensirion.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Semihalf Author: Tomasz Nowicki <tn@semihalf.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Sean Young <sean@mess.org> (port to rc-core)
Copyright (C) 2016 Sean Young
Copyright (C) 2016 Savoir-Faire Linux Author: Sebastien Bourdelin
<sebastien.bourdelin@savoirfairelinux.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Savoir-Faire Linux
Copyright (C) 2016 Sang Engineering, Wolfram Sang
Copyright (C) 2016 Sang Engineering
Copyright (C) 2016 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: Marek Szyprowski
<m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Samsung Electronics Chanwoo Choi <cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Samsung Electronics Author: Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com> Author: MyungJoo Ham <myungjoo.ham@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Samsung Electronics Author: Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 STMicroelectronics SAS
Copyright (C) 2016 STMicroelectronics Imaging Division.
Copyright (C) 2016 STMicroelectronics Author: Gabriel Fernandez for
STMicroelectronics.
Copyright (C) 2016 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited. Author: Patrice Chotard
<patrice.chotard@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited Author: Giuseppe Cavallaro
<peppe.cavallaro@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 STMicroelectronics
Copyright (C) 2016 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2016 Ruslan Bilovol <ruslan.bilovol@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Roger Shimizu <rogershimizu@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. Jeffy Chen <jeffy.chen@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. Alpha Lin <Alpha.Lin@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2016 Robert Jarzmik
Copyright (C) 2016 Renesas Solutions Corp. Kuninori Morimoto
<kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Renesas Electronics Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2016 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2016 Renesas Electronics
Copyright (C) 2016 Regents of the University of California
Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat, Inc. Author: Michael S. Tsirkin <mst@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Alex Williamson
<alex.williamson@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat Inc. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat Author: Rob Clark <robdclark@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Red Hat
Copyright (C) 2016 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Rafał Miłecki <rafal@milecki.pl>
Copyright (C) 2016 Rafał Miłecki <rafal.milecki@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Raashid Muhammed <raashidmuhammed@zilogic.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 ROCKCHIP, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Powerventure Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016 Petr Kulhavy, Barix AG <petr@barix.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Peter Hong (Peter_Hong@fintek.com.tw)
Copyright (C) 2016 Pengutronix, Philipp Zabel <p.zabel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Pengutronix, Michael Tretter <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2016 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 2016 Paul Kocialkowski <contact@paulk.fr>
Copyright (C) 2016 Parav Pandit <pandit.parav@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Christian Hemp
<c.hemp@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH
Copyright (C) 2016 PHYTEC Messtechnik Author: Christian Hemp <c.hemp@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 PEAK System-Technik GmbH
Copyright (C) 2016 Oracle. All Rights Reserved. Author: Darrick J. Wong
<darrick.wong@oracle.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Oracle and/or its affiliates. All rights reserved. Author:
Khalid Aziz (khalid.aziz@oracle.com)
Copyright (C) 2016 Ondřej Jirman <megous@megous.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Noralf Trønnes
Copyright (C) 2016 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu <iwamatsu@nigauri.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Nicolai Stange <nicstange@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Nicolae Rosia <nicolae.rosia@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Nextfour Group
Copyright (C) 2016 NextThing Co.
Copyright (C) 2016 NextThing Co
Copyright (C) 2016 Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com> Vitaly Wool
<vitalywool@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Neil Armstrong <narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 National Instruments Corp.
Copyright (C) 2016 Namjae Jeon <namjae.jeon@protocolfreedom.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Namjae Jeon <linkinjeon@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 NXP Semiconductors. Author: Fabio Estevam
<fabio.estevam@nxp.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 NVIDIA CORPORATION, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Mylene Josserand <mylene.josserand@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Milo Kim <woogyom.kim@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Microchip Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Microchip Technology Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Michael Lee <igvtee@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Michael Heimpold <mhei@heimpold.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Mellanox Techonologies
Copyright (C) 2016 Mellanox Technologies
Copyright (C) 2016 MediaTek Inc. Authors:       Xiaolei Li
<xiaolei.li@mediatek.com> Jorge Ramirez-Ortiz        <jorge.ramirez-
ortiz@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Maxime Ripard Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Maxime Ripard
Copyright (C) 2016 Maxim Integrated Products
Copyright (C) 2016 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Matt Ranostay <matt@ranostay.consulting>
Copyright (C) 2016 Mathieu Desnoyers <mathieu.desnoyers@efficios.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Marvell, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016 Marvell Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2016 Martin Sperl <kernel@martin.sperl.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Martin Sperl
Copyright (C) 2016 Martin Peres
Copyright (C) 2016 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Markus Heiser
Copyright (C) 2016 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Marcel Hasler mahasler--a.t--gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Maarten ter Huurne <maarten@treewalker.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 MEN Mikroelektronik GmbH (www.men.de)
Copyright (C) 2016 MELFAS Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Lukas Wunner <lukas@wunner.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Luc Maranget <luc.maranget@inria.fr> for Inria
Copyright (C) 2016 Lubomir Rintel
Copyright (C) 2016 Lorenzo Bianconi <lorenzo.bianconi83@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Linus Walleij
Copyright (C) 2016 Lino Sanfilippo <LinoSanfilippo@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Linaro. Viresh Kumar <viresh.kumar@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Linaro, Ltd. Stephen Boyd <stephen.boyd@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Linaro, Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Linaro, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Linaro Viresh Kumar <viresh.kumar@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Linaro Ltd; <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Linaro Ltd. Author: Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Linaro Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016 Linaro Ltd Author: Sumit Semwal <sumit.semwal@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Linaro Ltd
Copyright (C) 2016 Linaro Author: Christoffer Dall <christoffer.dall@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Laurent Pinchart
Copyright (C) 2016 Krzysztof Adamski <k@japko.eu>
Copyright (C) 2016 Kees Cook
Copyright (C) 2016 Joshua Kinard <kumba@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Jonas Gorski <jonas.gorski@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 John Muir <john@jmuir.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Joao Pinto <jpinto@synopsys.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Jessica Yu <jeyu@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Jeremy Kerr <jk@ozlabs.org>, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2016 Jens Axboe <axboe@kernel.dk>
Copyright (C) 2016 Jens Axboe
Copyright (C) 2016 Jason A. Donenfeld <Jason@zx2c4.com>. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Jamie Lentin <jm@lentin.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2016 James Pettigrew <james@innovum.com.au>
Copyright (C) 2016 Jagan Teki <jteki@openedev.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel, Ross Zwisler
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel, Matthew Wilcox
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corporation Authors:   Sailaja Bandarupalli
<sailaja.bandarupalli@intel.com> Ramesh Babu K V   <ramesh.babu@intel.com>
Vaibhav Agarwal <vaibhav.agarwal@intel.com> Jerome Anand
<jerome.anand@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corporation Author: Lv Zheng <lv.zheng@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corporation Author: Felipe Balbi
<felipe.balbi@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corporation Author: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corp Authors:  Sailaja Bandarupalli
<sailaja.bandarupalli@intel.com> Ramesh Babu K V <ramesh.babu@intel.com> Vaibhav
Agarwal <vaibhav.agarwal@intel.com> Jerome Anand <jerome.anand@intel.com>
Aravind Siddappaji <aravindx.siddappaji@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corp Authors:  Sailaja Bandarupalli
<sailaja.bandarupalli@intel.com> Ramesh Babu K V   <ramesh.babu@intel.com>
Vaibhav Agarwal <vaibhav.agarwal@intel.com> Jerome Anand
<jerome.anand@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corp Author: Shreyas NC <shreyas.nc@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel Corp
Copyright (C) 2016 Intel
Copyright (C) 2016 InforceComputing Author: Vinay Simha BN <simhavcs@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Imre Kaloz <kaloz@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016 Imagination Technologies Author: Paul Burton
<paul.burton@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Imagination Technologies Author: Marcin Nowakowski
<marcin.nowakowski@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Imagination Technologies
Copyright (C) 2016 Icenowy Zheng Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (C) 2016 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.xyz>
Copyright (C) 2016 Icenowy Zheng <icenowy@aosc.io>
Copyright (C) 2016 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2016 Hubert Denkmair
Copyright (C) 2016 Huawei Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Host Mobility AB. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016 HiSilicon Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 HALE electronic
Copyright (C) 2016 Gwenhael Goavec-Merou
Copyright (C) 2016 Guennadi Liakhovetski (guennadi.liakhovetski@intel.com)
Copyright (C) 2016 Google, inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Google, Inc
Copyright (C) 2016 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2016 Gateworks Corporation, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Garz & Fricke GmbH
Copyright (C) 2016 Fuzhou Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd
Copyright (C) 2016 Fujitsu Technology Solutions GmbH, Thilo Cestonaro
<thilo.cestonaro@ts.fujitsu.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 FuZhou Rockchip Co., Ltd. Author: Yakir Yang <ykk@@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Freescale Semiconductor.
Copyright (C) 2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Peter Chen
<peter.chen@freescale.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Free Electrons Quentin Schulz <quentin.schulz@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Free Electrons
Copyright (C) 2016 Florian Fainelli <f.fainelli@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Florent Revest <florent.revest@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Felix Fietkau <nbd@nbd.name>
Copyright (C) 2016 Feature Integration Technology Inc., (Fintek)
Copyright (C) 2016 Facebook
Copyright (C) 2016 Engicam S.r.l.
Copyright (C) 2016 Endless Mobile, Inc. Author: Carlo Caione
<carlo@endlessm.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Emcraft Systems
Copyright (C) 2016 Eduardo Valentin <edubezval@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Eckelmann AG.
Copyright (C) 2016 Derald D. Woods <woods.technical@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 David Lechner <david@lechnology.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 David Lechner
Copyright (C) 2016 Cristina-Gabriela Moraru <cristina.moraru09@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 CoreOS, Inc
Copyright (C) 2016 Collabora Ltd
Copyright (C) 2016 CogentEmbedded Inc Author: Andrey Gusakov
<andrey.gusakov@cogentembedded.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Cogent Embedded, Inc., <source@cogentembedded.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Cogent Embedded Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (C) 2016 Christoph Fritz <chf.fritz@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Chris Zhong <zyw@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright (C) 2016 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Cavium Inc. Authors: Jan Glauber <jglauber@cavium.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Canonical Ltd. <seth.forshee@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Cadence Design Systems - https://www.cadence.com
Copyright (C) 2016 Bryant G. Ly <bryantly@linux.vnet.ibm.com> IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2016 Broadcom Limited
Copyright (C) 2016 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016 Broadcom Author: Jayachandran C <jchandra@broadcom.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2016 Boundary Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Bluecherry, LLC <maintainers@bluecherrydvr.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 BayLibre, SAS. Author : Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 BayLibre, SAS. All rights reserved. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 BayLibre, SAS Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 BayLibre, Inc
Copyright (C) 2016 BayLibre SAS. Author: Neil Armstrong
<narmstrong@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 BayLibre SAS
Copyright (C) 2016 Bamvor Jian Zhang
Copyright (C) 2016 Axentia Technologies AB
Copyright (C) 2016 Author: Ruslan Bilovol <ruslan.bilovol@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Atmel, 2016 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Atmel,
Copyright (C) 2016 Atmel Corporation, Songjun Wu <songjun.wu@atmel.com>, Nicolas
Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016 Atmel Bo Shen <voice.shen@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Atmel
Copyright (C) 2016 Ash Hughes <ashley.hughes@blueyonder.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2016 Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corporation
Copyright (C) 2016 Anton Ivanov (aivanov@brocade.com)
Copyright (C) 2016 Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
Copyright (C) 2016 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Amarula Solutions B.V.
Copyright (C) 2016 Altera Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Altera Corporation. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2016 Allied Telesis Labs NZ
Copyright (C) 2016 Allied Telesis Labs
Copyright (C) 2016 Alison Schofield <amsfield22@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Alexander Kurz <akurz@blala.de>
Copyright (C) 2016 Alex Hung <alex.hung@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Aleksei Mamlin <mamlinav@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Akinobu Mita <akinobu.mita@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Authors: Gustavo Padovan
<gustavo@padovan.org> Christian König <christian.koenig@amd.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 Adam Baker <linux@baker-net.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 2016 AceLan Kao <acelan.kao@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 ARM Ltd. Author:	James Morse <james.morse@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2016 ARM Limited, All Rights Reserved. Author: Marc Zyngier
<marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 ARM Limited, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2016 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2016 ARM
Copyright (C) 2016 - Marcin Malagowski <mrc@bourne.st>
Copyright (C) 2016 - ARM Ltd. Author: Andre Przywara <andre.przywara@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 - ARM Ltd
Copyright (C) 2016 - 2022, Intel Corporation Author: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2016 - 2020 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 - 2020 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (C) 2016 - 2018 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 - 2017 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2016 - 2017 Linaro, Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2016 - 2017 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015~2017 Spreadtrum, Inc. Author: Chunyan Zhang
<chunyan.zhang@spreadtrum.com>
Copyright (C) 2015: Linus Lüssing <linus.luessing@c0d3.blue>
Copyright (C) 2015-2022 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Nishanth Menon
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 DH electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 ARM Limited. Original author: Dave Martin
<Dave.Martin@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2020 Corentin Labbe <clabbe@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2020 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015-2020 ARM Limited. Original author: Dave Martin
<Dave.Martin@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Vladimir Zapolskiy <vz@mleia.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Suman Anna <s-anna@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Author: Tomi Valkeinen <tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Netronome Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Microchip Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Konsulko Group Author: Matt Ranostay
<matt.ranostay@konsulko.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Jason A. Donenfeld <Jason@zx2c4.com>. All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Corentin Labbe <clabbe.montjoie@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 ARM Limited. Original author: Dave Martin
<Dave.Martin@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2018, EfficiOS Inc., Mathieu Desnoyers
<mathieu.desnoyers@efficios.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Y Soft Corporation, a.s.
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Toke Høiland-Jørgensen <toke@toke.dk>
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Sebastian Moeller <moeller0@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Pengutronix, Uwe Kleine-König <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Overkiz SAS Author: Mickael Gardet
<m.gardet@overkiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Ondrej Ille <ondrej.ille@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Netronome Systems, Inc. 
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Etnaviv Project
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Cirrus Logic, Inc. and Cirrus Logic International
Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Cirrus Logic
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Bosch Sicherheitssysteme GmbH
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Author: Matt Ranostay <matt.ranostay@konsulko.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Alban Bedel <albeu@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 - ARM Ltd Author: Marc Zyngier <marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017, 2022 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Andrew F. Davis <afd@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Andreas Dannenberg <dannenberg@ti.com> Andrew F. Davis <afd@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ J
Keerthy <j-keerthy@ti.com> Dave Gerlach <d-gerlach@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com> Kunihiko Hayashi
<hayashi.kunihiko@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Socionext Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Sebastian Reichel <sre@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Roger Shimizu <rogershimizu@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Pengutronix, Uwe Kleine-König <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Netronome Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Josh Poimboeuf <jpoimboe@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Intel Corp
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 I2SE GmbH <info@i2se.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Helen Koike <helen.fornazier@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Dialog Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Cogent Embedded, Inc. <source@cogentembedded.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Cirrus Logic
Copyright (C) 2015-2017 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2015-2017	Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (C) 2015-2016, SUSE, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2015-2016, Microchip Technology Germany II GmbH & Co. KG
Copyright (C) 2015-2016, ARM Ltd
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Zhang, Keguang <keguang.zhang@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Yinghai Lu
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Viresh Kumar <viresh.kumar@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 The fiat-crypto Authors.
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Tero Kristo <t-kristo@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Nishanth Menon
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Andrew F. Davis <afd@ti.com> Suman Anna <afd@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Andrew F. Davis <afd@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Socionext Inc. Author: Masahiro Yamada
<yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Smart Energy Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Samsung Electronics Krzysztof Opasiak
<k.opasiak@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Samsung Electronics Igor Kotrasinski
<i.kotrasinsk@samsung.com> Krzysztof Opasiak <k.opasiak@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Samsung Electronics Igor Kotrasinski
<i.kotrasinsk@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Red Hat
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Raspberry Pi (Trading) Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Paul Kocialkowski <contact@paulk.fr>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Nobuo Iwata
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Nexvision Author: Charles-Antoine Couret <charles-
antoine.couret@nexvision.fr>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 NextThing Co
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Mentor Graphics
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Josh Poimboeuf <jpoimboe@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Author: German Rivera
<German.Rivera@freescale.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Free Electrons
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Endless Mobile, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Cogent Embedded, Inc. <source@cogentembedded.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Bamvor Jian Zhang <bamv2005@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Anton Ivanov (aivanov@brocade.com)
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Altera Corporation by Alan Tull
<atull@opensource.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2016 Altera Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015-19 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015-17 Wolfram Sang, Sang Engineering <wsa@sang-engineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-17 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015-16 by Wolfram Sang, Sang Engineering <wsa@sang-
engineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-16 by Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015-16 Intel Corp Author:Rafal Redzimski
<rafal.f.redzimski@intel.com> Jeeja KP <jeeja.kp@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015,2016 Cavium Inc. Authors: Fred Martin
<fmartin@caviumnetworks.com> Jan Glauber <jglauber@cavium.com>
Copyright (C) 2015,2016 ARM Ltd. Author: Andre Przywara <andre.przywara@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Wang Nan <wangnan0@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Vitaly Kuznetsov <vkuznets@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Taeung Song <treeze.taeung@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Stephan Mueller <smueller@chronox.de>
Copyright (C) 2015, Sebastian Hesselbarth <sebastian.hesselbarth@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Samsung Electronics, Co., Ltd. Andrzej Hajda
<a.hajda@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Jacek Anaszewski
<j.anaszewski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Andrzej Hajda
<a.hajda@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015, SUSE
Copyright (C) 2015, Motorola Mobility.
Copyright (C) 2015, Motorola Mobility
Copyright (C) 2015, Microchip Technology Germany II GmbH & Co. KG
Copyright (C) 2015, Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015, Marcelo Ricardo Leitner <marcelo.leitner@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Linaro Ltd Author: Graeme Gregory
<graeme.gregory@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015, Inverse Path Andrej Rosano <andrej@inversepath.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Intel Corporation. Author: Subhransu S. Prusty
<subhransu.s.prusty@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015, Intel Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2015, Intel Corporation Authors: Mathias Nyman
<mathias.nyman@linux.intel.com> Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Intel Corporation Authors: Lv Zheng <lv.zheng@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Intel Corporation Author: Rafael J. Wysocki
<rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Intel Corporation Author: Jiang Liu
<jiang.liu@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015, Intel Corp. Author: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com> Author: Rafael J. Wysocki
<rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Intel Corp. Author: Kan Liang (kan.liang@intel.com)
Copyright (C) 2015, Imagination Technologies Ltd. Authors: Matt Redfearn
(matt.redfearn@mips.com)
Copyright (C) 2015, Huawei Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015, HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015, He Kuang <hekuang@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Google, Inc., Paul Turner <pjt@google.com> and Andrew Hunter
<ahh@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015, Google, Inc
Copyright (C) 2015, Dmitry Eremin-Solenikov
Copyright (C) 2015, Broadcom Corporation Author: Florian Fainelli
<f.fainelli@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015, Andrew Andrianov <andrew@ncrmnt.org>
Copyright (C) 2015, 2020 Tom Zanussi <tom.zanussi@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, 2019 International Business Machines Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015, 2018 Technologic Systems
Copyright (C) 2015, 2018 Author: Matt Ranostay <matt.ranostay@konsulko.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, 2017-2018 Author: Matt Ranostay <matt.ranostay@konsulko.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, 2017 Raspberry Pi
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016 Roger Shimizu <rogershimizu@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016 Intel Corporation Author: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015, 2016 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 by Sang Engineering
Copyright (C) 2015 by Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 Zodiac Inflight Innovations
Copyright (C) 2015 Xilinx, Inc. CEVA AHCI SATA platform driver
Copyright (C) 2015 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Wolfram Sang <wsa@sang-engineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 William Breathitt Gray
Copyright (C) 2015 Wang Nan <wangnan0@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Vishnu Patekar <vishnupatekar0510@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 VanguardiaSur - www.vanguardiasur.com.ar
Copyright (C) 2015 Valeo S.A.
Copyright (C) 2015 Ulrich Hecht
Copyright (C) 2015 Toradex AG.
Copyright (C) 2015 Topic Embedded Products
Copyright (C) 2015 Tom Zanussi <tom.zanussi@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Toby Churchill - http://www.toby-churchill.com/
Copyright (C) 2015 Thomas Meyer (thomas@m3y3r.de)
Copyright (C) 2015 The Linux Foundation
Copyright (C) 2015 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Dave
Gerlach <d-gerlach@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Author:
Jyri Sarha <jsarha@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Andrew
F. Davis <afd@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com Author:
Roger Quadros <rogerq@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Andrew F.
Davis <afd@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com Author:
Peter Ujfalusi <peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2015 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Texas Instruments Author: Jyri Sarha <jsarha@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Tai Chi Minh Ralph Eastwood
Copyright (C) 2015 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2015 Sudip Mukherjee <sudip.mukherjee@codethink.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2015 Stephen Chandler Paul <thatslyude@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Stefan Wahren <stefan.wahren@i2se.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Stefan Agner
Copyright (C) 2015 Srinivas Kandagatla <srinivas.kandagatla@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Sony Mobile Communications Inc. Author: Werner Johansson
<werner.johansson@sonymobile.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Sony Mobile Communications Inc
Copyright (C) 2015 Softing Industrial Automation GmbH
Copyright (C) 2015 Simon Arlott
Copyright (C) 2015 SiS, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Shaohua Li <shli@fb.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Seagate Technology PLC
Copyright (C) 2015 Seagate
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics Robert Baldyga <r.baldyga@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics Ingi Kim <ingi2.kim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: Marek Szyprowski
<m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: Joonyoung Shim
<jy0922.shim@samsung.com> Hyungwon Hwang <human.hwang@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: Hyungwon Hwang
<human.hwang@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Jacek Anaszewski
<j.anaszewski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd Author: Jacek Anaszewski
<j.anaszewski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics Author: Jaewon Kim
<jaewon02.kim@samsung.com> Author: Beomho Seo <beomho.seo@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics Author: Jaewon Kim
<jaewon02.kim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics Author: Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electronics
Copyright (C) 2015 Samsung Electrnoics Robert Baldyga <r.baldyga@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Sakari Ailus
Copyright (C) 2015 STMicroelectronics – All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2015 STMicroelectronics R&D Limited
Copyright (C) 2015 STMicroelectronics Pvt. Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 STMicroelectronics Ltd
Copyright (C) 2015 STMicroelectronics Limited. Author: Gabriel Fernandez
<gabriel.fernandez@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 STMicroelectronics - All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2015 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited. Author: Maxime Coquelin
<maxime.coquelin@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited
Copyright (C) 2015 ST Microelectronics
Copyright (C) 2015 SEI
Copyright (C) 2015 Rusty Russell
Copyright (C) 2015 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2015 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. Alpha Lin <alpha.lin@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2015 Robert Jarzmik
Copyright (C) 2015 Rob Clark
Copyright (C) 2015 Richard Weinberger (richard@nod.at)
Copyright (C) 2015 Richard Pospesel
Copyright (C) 2015 Renesas Solutions Corp. Kuninori Morimoto
<kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2015 Renesas Electronics Corporation Kuninori Morimoto
<kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2015 Renesas Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 Regents of the University of California
Copyright (C) 2015 Red Hat. Author: Rob Clark <robdclark@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Red Hat. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Red Hat, Inc., Johannes Weiner
Copyright (C) 2015 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2015 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Red Hat Inc. Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Red Hat Inc, Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Red Hat
Copyright (C) 2015 Raspberry Pi
Copyright (C) 2015 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Rabeeh Khoury <rabeeh@solid-run.com> Russell King
Copyright (C) 2015 Rabeeh Khoury <rabeeh@solid-run.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 QWERTY Embedded Design
Copyright (C) 2015 Prevas A/S
Copyright (C) 2015 Powerventure Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH Author: Teresa Remmet
<t.remmet@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Peter Zijlstra
Copyright (C) 2015 Pengutronix, Uwe Kleine-König <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Pengutronix, Steffen Trumtrar <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Paradox Innovation Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Paolo Valente <paolo.valente@unimore.it> Arianna Avanzini
<avanzini.arianna@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Overkiz SAS Author: Antoine Aubert <a.aubert@overkiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Overkiz SAS
Copyright (C) 2015 Ondrej Zary
Copyright (C) 2015 Olof Kindgren <olof.kindgren@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Numascale AS. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Nobuo Iwata
Copyright (C) 2015 Nikolay Martynov <mar.kolya@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Nikolaus Schaller <hns@goldelico.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Niklas Söderlund
Copyright (C) 2015 NextThing Co
Copyright (C) 2015 Naveen N. Rao, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Microchip Technology, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Microchip Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Microchip Technology Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Microchip Technology Germany II GmbH & Co. KG
Copyright (C) 2015 Microchip Technology
Copyright (C) 2015 Microchip Andrei Pistirica, Paul Thacker
Copyright (C) 2015 Micro Crystal SA Alexandre Belloni
<alexandre.belloni@bootlin.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Mickaël Salaün <mic@digikod.net>
Copyright (C) 2015 Mentor Graphics Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2015 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Maxime Ripard
Copyright (C) 2015 Masahiro Yamada <yamada.masahiro@socionext.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2015 Martin Wimpress
Copyright (C) 2015 Martin Willi
Copyright (C) 2015 Martin Sperl
Copyright (C) 2015 Martin Schiller <mschiller@tdt.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Martin Blumenstingl <martin.blumenstingl@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Markus Reichl
Copyright (C) 2015 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Lyude Paul <thatslyude@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Lyude (Stephen Chandler Paul) <cpaul@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Lukas Wunner <lukas@wunner.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Lucas Stach <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Linus Walleij
Copyright (C) 2015 Linaro, Ltd. Rob Herring <robh@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Linaro, Ltd Author: Andy Green <andy.green@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Linaro Ltd.Jassi Brar <jaswinder.singh@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Linaro Ltd. Author: Shannon Zhao <shannon.zhao@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Linaro Ltd. Author: Jassi Brar <jaswinder.singh@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Linaro Ltd. Author: Ard Biesheuvel
<ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Linaro Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Linaro Ltd Andy Green <andy.green@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Laurent Fasnacht <l@libres.ch>
Copyright (C) 2015 Kozhevnikov Anatoly
Copyright (C) 2015 Karol Kosik <karo9@interia.eu> 2015 Samsung Electronics
Author: Igor Kotrasinski <i.kotrasinsk@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Karol Kosik <karo9@interia.eu>
Copyright (C) 2015 Juniper Networks, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Julia Lawall, Inria. URL:
https://coccinelle.gitlabpages.inria.fr/website
Copyright (C) 2015 Josh Poimboeuf <jpoimboe@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 John Horan (knasher@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2015 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 John Crispin <blogic@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Jens Kuske <jenskuske@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Jemma Denson <jdenson@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Jay Kuri
Copyright (C) 2015 Jan Henrik Weinstock <jan.weinstock@rwth-aachen.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Jakub Kicinski <kubakici@wp.pl>
Copyright (C) 2015 Jade Alglave <j.alglave@ucl.ac.uk>,
Copyright (C) 2015 Jablotron s.r.o. -- https://www.jablotron.com/ Author:
Rostislav Lisovy <lisovy@jablotron.cz>
Copyright (C) 2015 International Business Machines Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation Mian Yousaf Kaukab
<yousaf.kaukab@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation Author: Ramakrishna Pallala
<ramakrishna.pallala@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation Author: Heikki Krogerus
<heikki.krogerus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation Author: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corp., Peter Zijlstra <peterz@infradead.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corp. Author: Chen, Gong <gong.chen@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corp Author:Rafal Redzimski
<rafal.f.redzimski@intel.com> Jeeja KP <jeeja.kp@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corp Author: Sanjiv Kumar <sanjiv.kumar@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corp Author: Jeeja KP <jeeja.kp@intel.com> Nilofer,
Samreen <samreen.nilofer@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corp Author: Jeeja KP <jeeja.kp@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corp Author: Fang, Yang A <yang.a.fang@intel.com>
N,Harshapriya <harshapriya.n@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corp Author: Fang, Yang A <yang.a.fang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Corp
Copyright (C) 2015 Intel Coropration
Copyright (C) 2015 Infineon Technologies AG
Copyright (C) 2015 Industrial Research Institute for Automation and Measurements
PIAP Written by Krzysztof Ha?asa
Copyright (C) 2015 Industrial Research Institute for Automation and Measurements
PIAP
Copyright (C) 2015 Imre Kaloz <kaloz@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Imagination Technologies, Ltd. Author: Markos Chandras
<markos.chandras@imgtec.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Imagination Technologies, Inc. written by Ralf Baechle
<ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Imagination Technologies Ltd Author: Qais Yousef
<qais.yousef@imgtec.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Imagination Technologies Author: Paul Burton
<paul.burton@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Imagination Technologies Author: Alex Smith
<alex.smith@imgtec.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Imagination Technologies
Copyright (C) 2015 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 IBM Corp. <aik@ozlabs.ru>
Copyright (C) 2015 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2015 Huawei Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Huawei Futurewei Technologies.
Copyright (C) 2015 HiSilicon Limited, All Rights Reserved. Author: Jun Ma
<majun258@huawei.com> Author: Yun Wu <wuyun.wu@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 HiSilicon Co., Ltd. http://www.hisilicon.com
Copyright (C) 2015 Henri Chain
Copyright (C) 2015 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 He Kuang <hekuang@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2015 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Gridpoint Author: Jon Ringle <jringle@gridpoint.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Google, Inc
Copyright (C) 2015 Goldelico GmbH
Copyright (C) 2015 Glider. Markus Brunner, Mark Jonas (Jul 2007).
Copyright (C) 2015 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2015 Gerhard Bertelsmann All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Gabriele Mazzotta <gabriele.mzt@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Fujitsu Semiconductor Limited
Copyright (C) 2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Free Electrons
Copyright (C) 2015 Frank Rowand
Copyright (C) 2015 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Facebook. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 FUJITSU LIMITED Author: Taku Izumi
<izumi.taku@jp.fujitsu.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Etnaviv Project
Copyright (C) 2015 Eric Biggers
Copyright (C) 2015 Engicam S.r.l.
Copyright (C) 2015 Endless Mobile, Inc. Author: Carlo Caione
<carlo@endlessm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Endless Mobile, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 EMC Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 EMAC Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Dmitry Eremin-Solenikov
Copyright (C) 2015 Dialog Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Dennis Menschel
Copyright (C) 2015 Davidlohr Bueso.
Copyright (C) 2015 Dave Penkler <dpenkler@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Dan Streetman, IBM Corp
Copyright (C) 2015 Cyrille Pitchen <cyrille.pitchen@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Cypress Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 CompuLab, Ltd. - http://www.compulab.co.il/
Copyright (C) 2015 CompuLab Ltd. - http://www.compulab.co.il/ Author: Ilya
Ledvich <ilya@compulab.co.il>
Copyright (C) 2015 CompuLab Ltd. - http://www.compulab.co.il/ Author: Dmitry
Lifshitz <lifshitz@compulab.co.il>
Copyright (C) 2015 Collabora Ltd. Author: Enric Balletbo i Serra
<enric.balletbo@collabora.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Collabora Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Clemens Gruber <clemens.gruber@pqgruber.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Citrix Systems R&D Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Christoph Junghans <ottxor@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Chris Diamand <chris@diamand.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright (C) 2015 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Cavium Inc. Author: Ganapatrao Kulkarni
<gkulkarni@cavium.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Casey Schaufler <casey@schaufler-ca.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Carlo Caione <carlo@endlessm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 By Tech Design S.L. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Broadcom Corporation Author: Florian Fainelli
<f.fainelli@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2015 Boris Barbulovski <bbarbulovski@gmail.com>.
Copyright (C) 2015 Boris Barbulovski <bbarbulovski@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Bert Vermeulen <bert@biot.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Benjamin Cama <benoar@dolka.fr>
Copyright (C) 2015 Ben Chen <ben_chen@bizlinktech.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Azael Avalos <coproscefalo@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel, 2015 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel, 2015 Ludovic Desroches <ludovic.desroches@atmel.com>
2021 Microchip Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries 2021 Eugen Hristev
<eugen.hristev@microchip.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel, 2015 Ludovic Desroches <ludovic.desroches@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel, 2015 Josh Wu <josh.wu@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel, 2015 Alexandre Belloni <alexandre.Belloni@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel Corporation, Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 Atmel
Copyright (C) 2015 Ash Charles, Gumstix, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Ash Charles, Gumstix Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 Arrikto, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Antti Palosaari <crope@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2015 Anton Ivanov (aivanov@{brocade.com,kot-begemot.co.uk)
Copyright (C) 2015 Anton Blanchard <anton@au.ibm.com>, IBM
Copyright (C) 2015 Anshuman Khandual, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2015 Annapurna Labs Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 Andrey Smetanin <asmetanin@virtuozzo.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Andrew Lutomirski <luto@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 Andrew Lutomirski
Copyright (C) 2015 Andrej Krutak <dev@andree.sk>
Copyright (C) 2015 Andrea Venturi Andrea Venturi <be17068@iperbole.bo.it>
Copyright (C) 2015 Andrea Merello <adnrea.merello@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Amlogic, Inc. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2015 Amarula Solutions B.V.
Copyright (C) 2015 Altera Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2015 Altera Corporation. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2015 Altera Corporation <www.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Altera Corporation
Copyright (C) 2015 Alexander Sverdlin
Copyright (C) 2015 Alex Hung <alex.hung@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Aleksa Sarai <cyphar@cyphar.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 Alban Bedel <albeu@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2015 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 Adafruit Industries
Copyright (C) 2015 ASMedia Technology Inc. Author: YD Tseng
<yd_tseng@asmedia.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2015 ARM Ltd. Sudeep Holla <sudeep.holla@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 ARM Ltd. Punit Agrawal <punit.agrawal@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 ARM Ltd. Author: Marc Zyngier <marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 ARM Ltd. Author: Lorenzo Pieralisi
<lorenzo.pieralisi@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 ARM Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2015 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 ARM Limited, All Rights Reserved. Author: Marc Zyngier
<marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 ARM Limited Author: Dave Martin <Dave.Martin@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2015 - Linaro Ltd
Copyright (C) 2015 - Ben Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2015 - ARM Ltd Author: Marc Zyngier <marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 - 2020 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 - 2018 MediaTek Inc. Author: Biao Huang
<biao.huang@mediatek.com> Ryder Lee <ryder.lee@mediatek.com> Sean Wang
<sean.wang@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2015 - 2018 Linaro Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 - 2017 Linaro Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2015 - 2017 Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (C) 2015 - 2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2015 - 2016 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015 - 2016 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (C) 2015	Intel Deutschland GmbH
Copyright (C) 2014-2022 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2021 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2014-2021 Pengutronix, Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2014-2021 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2014-2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Suman Anna <s-anna@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2014-2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Suman Anna <s-anna@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Author(s): Suman Anna <s-anna@ti.com> Andrew F. Davis <afd@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2020 Renesas Electronics Europe Ltd
Copyright (C) 2014-2020 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014-2020 Netronome Systems
Copyright (C) 2014-2020 NXP Semiconductors, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014-2020 Intel Corp Author: Subhransu S. Prusty
<subhransu.s.prusty@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2019 aQuantia Corporation. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2014-2019 aQuantia Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2014-2019 aQuantia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014-2019 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2019 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2014-2019 Renesas Electronics Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2019 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014-2019 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2018, Ambarella, Inc. Author: Dongge wu <dgwu@ambarella.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Renesas Electronics Europe Limited
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Overkiz SAS Author: Antoine Aubert
<a.aubert@overkiz.com> Gaël Portay <g.portay@overkiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Overkiz SAS
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Nuvoton Technologies tomer.maimon@nuvoton.com All rights
reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 MediaTek Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Jonathan Morton <chromatix99@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Etnaviv Project
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Dave Täht <dave.taht@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 aQuantia Corporation. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 aQuantia Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Jyri Sarha <jsarha@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH Author: Wadim Egorov
<w.egorov@phytec.de> Teresa Remmet <t.remmet@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Linaro Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Axis Communications AB
Copyright (C) 2014-2017 Alex Hung <alex.hung@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2016, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Zi Shen Lim <zlim.lnx@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Zhang, Keguang <keguang.zhang@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Ricardo Ribalda, Qtechnology A/S
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Pratyush Anand <panand@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2016 Azael Avalos
Copyright (C) 2014-2015, Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Toradex AG Author: Stefan Agner <stefan@agner.ch>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Seungwon Jeon
<essuuj@gmail.com> Author: Alim Akhtar <alim.akhtar@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 SUSE Linux GmbH Written by: Hannes Reinecke
<hare@suse.de>  Damien Le Moal <damien.lemoal@hgst.com> Shaun Tancheff
<shaun.tancheff@seagate.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 STMicroelectronics SAS. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Ralph Metzler <rjkm@metzlerbros.de> Marcus Metzler
<mocm@metzlerbros.de> developed for Digital Devices GmbH
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Pengutronix, Markus Pargmann <mpa@pengutronix.de>
Juergen Beisert, Pengutronix <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Pengutronix, Markus Pargmann <mpa@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Pali Rohár <pali@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Lucas Stach <dev@lynxeye.de>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Intel Corp Author: Samreen Nilofer
<samreen.nilofer@intel.com> Subhransu S. Prusty <subhransu.s.prusty@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Intel Corp Author: Jeeja KP <jeeja.kp@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Felix Fietkau <nbd@nbd.name>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Cypress Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Cogent Embedded, Inc. Author: Sergei Shtylyov
<sergei.shtylyov@cogentembedded.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Cogent Embedded, Inc. <source@cogentembedded.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Capella Microsystems Inc. Author: Kevin Tsai
<ktsai@capellamicro.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Altera Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Altera Corporation <www.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 Allwinner
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014-2015 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2014-19 Wolfram Sang <wsa@sang-engineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-18 H. Nikolaus Schaller <hns@goldelico.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-15, Intel Corporation. Author:Rafal Redzimski
<rafal.f.redzimski@intel.com> Jeeja KP <jeeja.kp@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-15, Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2014-15 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2014-15 Intel Corp Author: Jeeja KP <jeeja.kp@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014--2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014,2018 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014,2016 Maksim Salau <maksim.salau@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014,2015 Samsung Electronics Jaewon Kim
<jaewon02.kim@samsung.com> Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2014,2015 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014, Xsens Technologies BV <info@xsens.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, VMware, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014, Topic Embedded Products
Copyright (C) 2014, Stephan Mueller <smueller@chronox.de>
Copyright (C) 2014, Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014, Sebastian Andrzej Siewior <bigeasy@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2014, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014, Red Hat Inc, Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, Microsoft, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014, Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014, Linaro Ltd. Author: Hanjun Guo <hanjun.guo@linaro.org>
Author: Graeme Gregory <graeme.gregory@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014, Jiri Olsa <jolsa@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, Intel Corporation Authors: Zhang Rui <rui.zhang@intel.com>
Rafael J. Wysocki <rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, Intel Corporation Authors: Zhang Rui <rui.zhang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, Intel Corporation Authors: Rafael J. Wysocki
<rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com> Mika Westerberg <mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, Intel Corporation Authors: Aaron Lu <aaron.lu@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, Intel Corporation Author: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com> Author: Chew Kean Ho <kean.ho.chew@intel.com>
Author: Chang Rebecca Swee Fun <rebecca.swee.fun.chang@intel.com> Author: Chew
Chiau Ee <chiau.ee.chew@intel.com> Author: Alan Cox <alan@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, Intel Corporation Author: Lv Zheng <lv.zheng@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, Intel Corporation All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014, Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014, Google, Inc
Copyright (C) 2014, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014, Cavium Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014, Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014, Benoit Masson <yahoo@perenite.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, Arnaud EBALARD <arno@natisbad.org>
Copyright (C) 2014, 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014, 2018-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014, 2018-2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014, 2017-2018 Author: Matt Ranostay <matt.ranostay@konsulko.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, 2016 Antony Pavlov <antonynpavlov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014, 2015 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2014, 2015 Pali Rohár <pali@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2014, 2015 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014 ololoshka2871
Copyright (C) 2014 by Wolfram Sang, Sang Engineering <wsa@sang-engineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 by Wolfram Sang <wsa@sang-engineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 by Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014 by Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 by Marcel Mol
Copyright (C) 2014 by Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2014 Zi Shen Lim <zlim.lnx@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Yunzhi Li <lyz@rock-chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Xylon d.o.o. Author: Davor Joja <davor.joja@logicbricks.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2014 Wolfram Sang, Sang Engineering <wsa@sang-engineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Varka Bhadram <varkab@cdac.in> Md.Jamal Mohiuddin
<mjmohiuddin@cdac.in> P Sowjanya <sowjanyap@cdac.in>
Copyright (C) 2014 Ulrich Weigand, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2014 Ulrich Hecht
Copyright (C) 2014 Traphandler
Copyright (C) 2014 Topic Embedded Systems
Copyright (C) 2014 Topic Embedded Products Author: Mike Looijmans
<mike.looijmans@topic.nl>
Copyright (C) 2014 Thomas Petazzoni <thomas.petazzoni@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Thomas Petazzoni
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments, Inc. Author: Sajesh Kumar Saran
<sajesh@ti.com> Grygorii Strashko <grygorii.strashko@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments, Inc. - https://www.ti.com Roger Quadros
<rogerq@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments, Inc Tero Kristo (t-kristo@ti.com)
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Ltd
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated. https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated Authors:      Santosh
Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com> Sandeep Nair <sandeep_n@ti.com> Cyril
Chemparathy <cyril@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated Authors:      Sandeep Nair
<sandeep_n@ti.com> WingMan Kwok <w-kwok2@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated Authors:      Sandeep Nair
<sandeep_n@ti.com> Sandeep Paulraj <s-paulraj@ti.com> Wingman Kwok
<w-kwok2@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated Authors:      Sandeep Nair
<sandeep_n@ti.com> Sandeep Paulraj <s-paulraj@ti.com> Cyril Chemparathy
<cyril@ti.com> Santosh Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com> Wingman Kwok
<w-kwok2@ti.com> Murali Karicheri <m-karicheri2@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated Authors:      Sandeep Nair
<sandeep_n@ti.com> Sandeep Paulraj <s-paulraj@ti.com> Cyril Chemparathy
<cyril@ti.com> Santosh Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com> Wingman Kwok
<w-kwok2@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated Authors:      Sandeep Nair
<sandeep_n@ti.com> Sandeep Paulraj <s-paulraj@ti.com> Cyril Chemparathy
<cyril@ti.com> Santosh Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com> Murali Karicheri
<m-karicheri2@ti.com> Wingman Kwok <w-kwok2@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated Authors:      Sandeep Nair
<sandeep_n@ti.com Cyril Chemparathy <cyril@ti.com Santosh Shilimkar
<santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated Aurelien Jacquiot
<a-jacquiot@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Authors:
Yong Zhi Mythri pk Archit Taneja <archit@ti.com> Tomi Valkeinen
<tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Author:
Balaji T K <balajitk@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com Author:
Sandeep Nair <sandeep_n@ti.com> Cyril Chemparathy <cyril@ti.com> Santosh
Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Author:
Felipe Balbi <balbi@ti.com> Author: Marcin Niestroj <m.niestroj@grinn-
global.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com Authors:
Sandeep Nair <sandeep_n@ti.com> Cyril Chemparathy <cyril@ti.com> Santosh
Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com Author:
Sandeep Nair <sandeep_n@ti.com> Cyril Chemparathy <cyril@ti.com> Santosh
Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments Author: Tomi Valkeinen
<tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2014 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2014 Sukadev Bhattiprolu, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2014 Stmicroelectronics
Copyright (C) 2014 Steven Rostedt, Red Hat Inc
Copyright (C) 2014 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Stefan Kristiansson <stefan.kristiansson@saunalahti.fi>
Copyright (C) 2014 Stefan Kristansson <stefan.kristiansson@saunalahti.fi>
Copyright (C) 2014 Sony Mobile Communications AB
Copyright (C) 2014 Simon Guinot <simon.guinot@sequanux.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Seth Jennings <sjenning@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Sergey Senozhatsky.
Copyright (C) 2014 Sergey Kozlov <serjk@netup.ru>
Copyright (C) 2014 Seong-Woo Kim
Copyright (C) 2014 Sensirion AG, Switzerland Author: Johannes Winkelmann
<johannes.winkelmann@sensirion.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Sebastian Reichel <sre@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Sebastian Andrzej Siewior
Copyright (C) 2014 Sean Young <sean@mess.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electronics, Co., Ltd. Author: Beomho Seo
<beomho.seo@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electronics Lukasz Majewski <l.majewski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electronics Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: Akshu Agarwal
<akshua@gmail.com> Ajay Kumar <ajaykumar.rs@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Sylwester Nawrocki
<s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Vivek Gautam
<gautam.vivek@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electronics Chanwoo Choi <cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electronics Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
<b.zolnierkie@samsung.com> Lukasz Majewski <l.majewski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electronics Author: Chanwoo Choi
<cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electronics Author: Beomho Seo
<beomho.seo@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Samsung Electrnoics Chanwoo Choi <cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 SUSE Linux Products GmbH
Copyright (C) 2014 SUSE
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics – All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics SAS. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics R&D Ltd
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics R&D Limited
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics Ltd Author: Giuseppe Cavallaro
<peppe.cavallaro@st.com> Contributors: Peter Griffin <peter.griffin@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics Limited. Author: Peter Griffin
<peter.griffin@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics Limited. Author: Giuseppe Cavallaro
<peppe.cavallaro@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics Limited
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics Author: Gabriel Fernandez
<gabriel.fernandez@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics -- All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited. Author: Peter Griffin
<peter.griffin@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited. Author: Giuseppe Cavallaro
<peppe.cavallaro@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited Author: Giuseppe Cavallaro
<peppe.cavallaro@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited
Copyright (C) 2014 STMicroelectronics
Copyright (C) 2014 ST Microelectronics Pratyush Anand <pratyush.anand@gmail.com>
Mohit Kumar <mohit.kumar.dhaka@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 ST Microelectronics Pratyush Anand <pratyush.anand@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2014 Rose Technology Allan Bendorff Jensen <abj@rosetechnology.dk>
Soren Andersen <san@rosetechnology.dk>
Copyright (C) 2014 Rose Technology
Copyright (C) 2014 Romain Perier <romain.perier@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Romain Perier
Copyright (C) 2014 Rockchip Electronics Co., Ltd. ZhiChao Yu <zhichao.yu@rock-
chips.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Robert Jarzmik
Copyright (C) 2014 Robert Butora (robert.butora.fi@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2014 Ricoh Electronic Devices Co., Ltd
Copyright (C) 2014 Ricardo Ribalda - Qtechnology/AS
Copyright (C) 2014 Renesas Solutions Corp. Kuninori Morimoto
<kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2014 Renesas Electronics Inc. Author: Laurent Pinchart
<laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014 Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2014 Regents of the University of California
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc., Johannes Weiner
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc. Author: Michael S. Tsirkin <mst@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Alex Williamson
<alex.williamson@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat Inc. Authors: Vivek Goyal <vgoyal@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat Inc, author: Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat Inc, Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat Author: Rob Clark <robdclark@gmail.com> Author: Vinay
Simha <vinaysimha@inforcecomputing.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat Author: Rob Clark <robdclark@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Red Hat
Copyright (C) 2014 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Rabeeh Khoury (rabeeh@solid-run.com)  Russell King
Copyright (C) 2014 ROCKCHIP, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Philippe Reynes
Copyright (C) 2014 Philipp Zabel, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2014 Philipp Zabel
Copyright (C) 2014 Peter Kaestle <peter@piie.net>
Copyright (C) 2014 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 2014 Pavel Machek <pavel@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Paratronic S.A.
Copyright (C) 2014 Paradox Innovation Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014 Pali Rohár <pali@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 PHYTEC Messtechnik GmbH Author: Wadim Egorov
<w.egorov@phytec.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Owen Kirby <osk@exegin.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Ondrej Zary
Copyright (C) 2014 Olli Salonen <olli.salonen@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2014 Oliver Hartkopp <oliver.hartkopp@volkswagen.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Oleksij Rempel <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 NovaTech LLC - https://www.novatechweb.com
Copyright (C) 2014 Noralf Tronnes
Copyright (C) 2014 NetUP Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 NXP Semiconductors All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014 Microchip Alexandre Belloni <alexandre.belloni@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Michael Hope
Copyright (C) 2014 Maxime Ripard Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Maxime Ripard
Copyright (C) 2014 Max nibble <nibble.max@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab+samsung@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Matthias Brugger
Copyright (C) 2014 Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014 Marvell Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2014 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014 Marvell Chao Xie <chao.xie@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Marvell Author: Gregory CLEMENT <gregory.clement@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2014 Mario Kicherer (dev@kicherer.org)
Copyright (C) 2014 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Marek Belisko <marek@goldelico.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Magnus Damm
Copyright (C) 2014 Ma Haijun <mahaijuns@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 MEN Mikroelektronik GmbH (www.men.de) Author: Johannes
Thumshirn <johannes.thumshirn@men.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 MEN Mikroelektronik GmbH (www.men.de) Author: Andreas Werner
<andreas.werner@men.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 MEN Mikro Elektronik Nuernberg GmbH
Copyright (C) 2014 Luca Ellero <luca.ellero@brickedbrain.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Linutronix GmbH Author: John Ogness
<john.ogness@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro. Viresh Kumar <viresh.kumar@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro Ltd. Author: Rob Herring <robh@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro Ltd. Author: Anup Patel <anup.patel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro Ltd. Author:  Ashwin Chaugule
<ashwin.chaugule@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro Ltd Author: Ulf Hansson <ulf.hansson@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro Ltd <yazen.ghannam@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro Ltd
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro Limited Author: AKASHI Takahiro
<takahiro.akashi@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Linaro Limited
Copyright (C) 2014 Lemote Corporation. written by Huacai Chen
<chenhc@lemote.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Lad, Prabhakar <prabhakar.csengg@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 LSI Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014 LSI
Copyright (C) 2014 LG Electronics, Inc
Copyright (C) 2014 Kevin Cernekee <cernekee@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Kamlakant Patel <kamlakant.patel@broadcom.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Juergen Holzmann
Copyright (C) 2014 Jozsef Kadlecsik <kadlec@netfilter.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Joshua Kinard <kumba@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Josh Poimboeuf <jpoimboe@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Jonas Jensen
Copyright (C) 2014 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Johan Hovold <johan@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Javier Martinez Canillas <javier@dowhile0.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Jason Baron <jbaron@akamai.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Jackie Hwang
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corporation; author Matt Fleming
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved. Contact: David Cohen
<david.a.cohen@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corporation Contact: Sakari Ailus <sakari.ailus@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corporation Author: Ramakrishna Pallala
<ramakrishna.pallala@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corp. Author: Rafael J. Wysocki
<rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corp. Author: Jiang Liu <jiang.liu@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corp, Author: Lan Tianyu <tianyu.lan@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corp Author: Subhransu S. Prusty
<subhransu.s.prusty@intel.com> Mengdong Lin <mengdong.lin@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corp Author: Subhransu S. Prusty
<subhransu.s.prusty@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Intel Corp
Copyright (C) 2014 Imre Kaloz <kaloz@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014 Imagination Technologies Ltd
Copyright (C) 2014 Imagination Technologies Author: Paul Burton
<paul.burton@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 IBM Corp. Santiago Leon (santi_leon@yahoo.com) Thomas Falcon
(tlfalcon@linux.vnet.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 2014 IBM
Copyright (C) 2014 Huawei Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014 Huawei Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2014 Hannes Reinecke <hare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2014 HGST, Inc., a Western Digital Company.
Copyright (C) 2014 H. Nikolaus Schaller <hns@goldelico.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Gumstix, Inc. - https://www.gumstix.com/
Copyright (C) 2014 Guenter Roeck <linux@roeck-us.net>
Copyright (C) 2014 GridPoint Author: Jon Ringle <jringle@gridpoint.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Google, Inc. Tomasz Figa <tfiga@chromium.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Google, Inc
Copyright (C) 2014 Google LLC. Tomasz Figa <tfiga@chromium.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Google Inc., Author: Daniel Walter <dwalter@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Golden Delicious Computers Author: H. Nikolaus Schaller
<hns@goldelico.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Glider bvba
Copyright (C) 2014 Fujitsu. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014 Freescale Semiconductor.
Copyright (C) 2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Dong Aisheng
<b29396@freescale.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Free Electrons Author: Boris BREZILLON <boris.brezillon@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Free Electrons
Copyright (C) 2014 Fraunhofer ITWM
Copyright (C) 2014 Florian Vaussard, EPFL Mobots group
Copyright (C) 2014 Filipe David Borba Manana <fdmanana@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Felix Fietkau <nbd@nbd.name>
Copyright (C) 2014 Facebook. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2014 Evgeni Dobrev <evgeni@studio-punkt.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Enric Balletbo i Serra <eballetbo@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Endless Mobile
Copyright (C) 2014 Emilio López Emilio López <emilio@elopez.com.ar>
Copyright (C) 2014 Elan Microelectronics Corporation. Scott Liu
<scott.liu@emc.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2014 Digital Devices GmbH
Copyright (C) 2014 Dell Inc <Dell.Client.Kernel@dell.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 David Gibson <david@gibson.dropbear.id.au>
Copyright (C) 2014 Darius Rad <darius@bluespec.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Darek Marcinkiewicz <reksio@newterm.pl>
Copyright (C) 2014 Daniel Golle <daniel@makrotopia.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Dan Streetman
Copyright (C) 2014 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Cogent Embedded Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Codethink Limited
Copyright (C) 2014 Claudio Leite <leitec@staticky.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (C) 2014 Christoph Fritz <chf.fritzc@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Chen-Zhi (Roger Chen)
Copyright (C) 2014 Chen-Yu Tsai Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Chen-Yu Tsai Author: Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright (C) 2014 Casey Schaufler <casey@schaufler-ca.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Carlo Caione Carlo Caione <carlo@caione.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Carlo Caione <carlo@caione.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Carlo Caione
Copyright (C) 2014 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Bruno Prémont <bonbons@linux-vserver.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Broadcom Corporation Author: Kevin Cernekee
<cernekee@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Broadcom Corporation Author: Kevin Cernekee
Copyright (C) 2014 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014 Boris Brezillon Boris Brezillon <boris.brezillon@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Beniamino Galvani <b.galvani@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Azael Avalos <coproscefalo@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Axentia Technologies AB Author: Peter Rosin <peda@axentia.se>
Copyright (C) 2014 Atmel, 2014 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com> 2015
Gregory CLEMENT <gregory.clement@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Atmel, 2014 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Atmel, 2014 Free Electrons
Copyright (C) 2014 Atmel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2014 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014 Atmel
Copyright (C) 2014 Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014 Antti Palosaari <crope@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2014 Anton Blanchard <anton@au.ibm.com>, IBM
Copyright (C) 2014 Antoine Ténart <antoine.tenart@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Anna Schumaker.
Copyright (C) 2014 Angelo Compagnucci <angelo.compagnucci@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Andreas Noever <andreas.noever@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Amlogic, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Altera Corporation. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2014 Altera Corporation
Copyright (C) 2014 Alexsey Shestacov <wingrime@linux-sunxi.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Alexandre Belloni <alexandre.belloni@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Alexander Shiyan <shc_work@mail.ru> Russell King
<rmk@arm.linux.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 2014 Alexander Shiyan <shc_work@mail.ru>
Copyright (C) 2014 Alexander Bersenev <bay@hackerdom.ru>
Copyright (C) 2014 Akihiro Tsukada <tskd08@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Authors: Suravee Suthikulpanit
<suravee.suthikulpanit@amd.com> Harish Kasiviswanathan
<harish.kasiviswanathan@amd.com> Brandon Anderson <brandon.anderson@amd.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 Actions Semi Inc. David Liu <liuwei@actions-semi.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 Abylay Ospan <aospan@netup.ru>
Copyright (C) 2014 ARM Ltd. Author: Lorenzo Pieralisi
<lorenzo.pieralisi@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 ARM Ltd. Author: Catalin Marinas <catalin.marinas@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2014 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2014 - STMicroelectronics Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 - 2020 Xilinx, Inc. Author: Miquel Raynal
<miquel.raynal@bootlin.com> Punnaiah Choudary Kalluri <punnaia@xilinx.com> Naga
Sureshkumar Relli <nagasure@xilinx.com>
Copyright (C) 2014 - 2018 Linaro Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 - 2017 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 - 2016 Cadence Design Systems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2014 - 2015 CompuLab Ltd. - http://www.compulab.co.il/
Copyright (C) 2014  Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
Copyright (C) 2013-2022 by the following authors: Rob Clark
<robdclark@gmail.com> (robclark) Ilia Mirkin <imirkin@alum.mit.edu> (imirkin)
Copyright (C) 2013-2021 by the following authors: Rob Clark
<robdclark@gmail.com> (robclark) Ilia Mirkin <imirkin@alum.mit.edu> (imirkin)
Copyright (C) 2013-2021 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2013-2020 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. https://www.samsung.com
Copyright (C) 2013-2020 Milan Broz <gmazyland@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2020 Microchip Technology Germany II GmbH & Co. KG
Copyright (C) 2013-2019 Wolfram Sang <wsa@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2019 Red Hat, Inc. Authors: Asias He <asias@redhat.com>
Stefan Hajnoczi <stefanha@redhat.com> Stefano Garzarella <sgarzare@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2019 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013-2019 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2013-2019 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2019 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Toradex AG <stefan.agner@toradex.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Dave Gerlach, Vaibhav Bedia
Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Arm Ltd. Author: Punit Agrawal <punit.agrawal@arm.com>,
Suzuki Poulose <suzuki.poulose@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2017 Wolfram Sang <wsa@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2013-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2013-2017 Oracle Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2017 Matthias Schwarzott <zzam@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2017 Linaro Ltd Authors: Roy Franz <roy.franz@linaro.org> Ard
Biesheuvel <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2017 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2013-2017 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2017 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2013-2017 ARM Limited, All Rights Reserved. Author: Marc Zyngier
<marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2016, Linaro Ltd. Author: Hanjun Guo <hanjun.guo@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 Steven Rostedt, Red Hat, Inc. <srostedt@redhat.com>
Clark Williams <williams@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 Steven Rostedt, Red Hat, Inc. <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 Red Hat Author: Rob Clark <robdclark@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 Michael Lee <igvtee@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 Geschwister Schneider Technologie-, Entwicklungs- und
Vertriebs UG (Haftungsbeschränkt).
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 Altera Corporation, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013-2016 Altera Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2015, Microchip Technology Germany II GmbH & Co. KG
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Samsung Electronics Jonghwa Lee
<jonghwa3.lee@samsung.com> Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Red Hat, Inc. Author: Asias He <asias@redhat.com> Stefan
Hajnoczi <stefanha@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 NVIDIA CORPORATION, All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Microchip Technology Germany II GmbH & Co. KG
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Lantiq Beteiligungs-GmbH & Co.KG
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Josh Poimboeuf <jpoimboe@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Ideas on Board
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 GlobalLogic Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Fujitsu Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Eric Dumazet <edumazet@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Dialog Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Corentin LABBE <clabbe.montjoie@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Chelsio Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Avago Technologies mailto: MPT-
FusionLinux.pdl@avagotech.com)
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Altera Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Alexei Starovoitov <ast@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 Alexander Popov <alex.popov@linux.com>.
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 ARM Limited, All Rights Reserved. Author: Marc Zyngier
<marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2015 ARM Limited Author: Liviu Dudau <Liviu.Dudau@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014,2016 Michael Heimpold <mhei@heimpold.de>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014, Linaro Ltd. Author: Al Stone <al.stone@linaro.org>
Author: Graeme Gregory <graeme.gregory@linaro.org> Author: Hanjun Guo
<hanjun.guo@linaro.org> Author: Tomasz Nowicki <tomasz.nowicki@linaro.org>
Author: Naresh Bhat <naresh.bhat@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014, Linaro Ltd. Author: Al Stone <al.stone@linaro.org>
Author: Graeme Gregory <graeme.gregory@linaro.org> Author: Hanjun Guo
<hanjun.guo@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014, 2018-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2014, 2018-2020, 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2014, 2018-2019, 2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2014, 2018-2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Texas Instruments., Ltd. https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Stephane Grosjean <s.grosjean@peak-system.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Silicon Image, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Savoir-faire Linux Inc. Vivien Didelot
<vivien.didelot@savoirfairelinux.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Renesas Electronics Europe Ltd. Author: Guennadi
Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Red Hat Author: Rob Clark <robdclark@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab+samsung@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Lubomir Rintel
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Linaro Ltd. Author: Jassi Brar
<jassisinghbrar@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Linaro Ltd. Author: Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Jens Axboe
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Intel Mobile Communications GmbH
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Google, Inc Simon Glass <sjg@chromium.org>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Chelsio Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Avago Technologies mailto: MPT-
FusionLinux.pdl@avagotech.com)
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Altera Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Allwinner Tech Co., Ltd Author: Sugar
<shuge@allwinnertech.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Alexander Shiyan <shc_work@mail.ru>
Copyright (C) 2013-2014 Aaro Koskinen <aaro.koskinen@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2013-15, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013-15 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2013-14 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2013-14 Intel Corp Author: Ramesh Babu
<ramesh.babu.koul@intel.com> Omair M Abdullah <omair.m.abdullah@intel.com>
Samreen Nilofer <samreen.nilofer@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-14 Intel Corp Author: Omair Mohammed Abdullah
<omair.m.abdullah@intel.com> Vinod Koul <vinod.koul@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013,2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013,2019 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013,2018,2020-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013,2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013,2018 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013,2017 Johan Hovold <johan@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2013,2017 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013,2016 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Sylwester Nawrocki
<s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013,2014 Samsung Electronics Krzysztof Kozlowski
<krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2013,2014 Samsung Electronics Chanwoo Choi <cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Krzysztof Kozlowski <krzk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2013,2014 Samsung Electornics
Copyright (C) 2013,2014 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2013,2014 Linaro Limited Roy Franz <roy.franz@linaro.org
Copyright (C) 2013,2014 Fred Richter <frichter@hauppauge.com>  Michael Krufky
Copyright (C) 2013,2014 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2013, Sylwester Nawrocki <sylvester.nawrocki@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, Seth Jennings, IBM
Copyright (C) 2013, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Andrzej Hajda
<a.hajda@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013, Obsidian Research Corp. Jason Gunthorpe
<jgunthorpe@obsidianresearch.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013, Microsoft, Inc. Author : K. Y. Srinivasan
<kys@microsoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, LG Electronics, Kyungsik Lee <kyungsik.lee@lge.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013, Intel Corporation Rafael J. Wysocki
<rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, Intel Corporation Authors: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com> Rafael J. Wysocki <rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, Intel Corporation Authors: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com> Heikki Krogerus
<heikki.krogerus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, Intel Corporation Authors: Lan Tianyu <tianyu.lan@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, Intel Corporation Authors: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com> Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, Intel Corporation Author: Rafael J. Wysocki
<rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, Intel Corporation Author: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, Intel Corporation Author: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013, Imagination Technologies
Copyright (C) 2013, Carlo Caione <carlo@caione.org>
Copyright (C) 2013, Arnaud EBALARD <arno@natisbad.org>
Copyright (C) 2013, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013, Apelete Seketeli <apelete@seketeli.net>
Copyright (C) 2013, Anton Blanchard, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013, Angelo Compagnucci Author: Angelo Compagnucci
<angelo.compagnucci@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
Copyright (C) 2013, Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen
<lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright (C) 2013, 2021 Intel Corporation Author: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013, 2018 Wolfram Sang <wsa@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2013, 2018 Intel Corporation Author: Bin Gao <bin.gao@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, 2015 Altera Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014 Red Hat, Inc. Author: Mark Salter <msalter@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014 Linaro Ltd; <roy.franz@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014 Horms Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014 Guenter Roeck <linux@roeck-us.net>
Copyright (C) 2013, 2014 ARM Limited, All Rights Reserved. Author: Marc Zyngier
<marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2013, 2013 Red Hat, Inc. Dave Young <dyoung@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 secunet Security Networks AG
Copyright (C) 2013 g10 Code GmbH
Copyright (C) 2013 by John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 by Adfin Solutions, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by
Milosz Tanski (milosz@adfin.com)
Copyright (C) 2013 ams AG
Copyright (C) 2013 ams
Copyright (C) 2013 Xsens <info@xsens.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2013 Xenia Ragiadakou
Copyright (C) 2013 Wolfram Sang <wsa@sang-engineering.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 WindRiver
Copyright (C) 2013 Wesley W. Terpstra <w.terpstra@gsi.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Wei Shuai <cpuwolf@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Vayavya Labs Pvt Ltd
Copyright (C) 2013 VMware, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013 Uwe Kleine-Koenig for Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2013 Tuomas Vainikka (tuomas.vainikka@aalto.fi)
Copyright (C) 2013 Tom Zanussi <tom.zanussi@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Tom Gundersen <teg@jklm.no>
Copyright (C) 2013 Thomas Langer, Lantiq Deutschland
Copyright (C) 2013 The IMS Company
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments. Murali Karicheri <m-karicheri2@ti.com>
Santosh Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments, Inc. Santosh Shilimkar
<santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments, Inc Tero Kristo (t-kristo@ti.com)
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated Author: Tomi Valkeinen
<tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Nishanth
Menon
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Contact:
Eduardo Valentin <eduardo.valentin@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Author:
Tomi Valkeinen <tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com Author:
Sourav Poddar <sourav.poddar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com Author:
Graeme Gregory <gg@slimlogic.co.uk> Author: Kishon Vijay Abraham I
<kishon@ti.com> Author: Hema HK <hemahk@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Contact:
Eduardo Valentin <eduardo.valentin@ti.com> Tero Kristo <t-kristo@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Contact:
Eduardo Valentin <eduardo.valentin@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Author:
Rajendra Nayak <rnayak@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com Author:
Sricharan R <r.sricharan@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com Author:
Kishon Vijay Abraham I <kishon@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Inc. Murali Karicheri <m-karicheri2@ti.com>
Santosh Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Inc. Contact: Eduardo Valentin
<eduardo.valentin@ti.com> Tero Kristo <t-kristo@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Inc
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Eduardo Valentin <eduardo.valentin@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Author: Tomi Valkeinen
<tomi.valkeinen@ti.com> Steve Sakoman <steve@sakoman.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Author: Tomi Valkeinen
<tomi.valkeinen@ti.com> Archit Taneja <archit@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments Author: Tomi Valkeinen
<tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2013 Terry Lam <vtlam@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 TangoTec Ltd. Author: Baruch Siach <baruch@tkos.co.il>
Copyright (C) 2013 TangoTec Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 Takashi Yoshii <takashi.yoshii.ze@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2013 Sylwester Nawrocki <sylvester.nawrocki@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 SuSE Labs Borislav Petkov <bp@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 SuSE Labs
Copyright (C) 2013 Steven Liu <steven_liu@mediatek.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Stephen Warren
Copyright (C) 2013 Steffen Trumtrar <s.trumtrar@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Stefani Seibold <stefani@seibold.net>
Copyright (C) 2013 Stefan Kristiansson, stefan.kristiansson@saunalahti.fi
Copyright (C) 2013 Sony Mobile Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Sirius Electronic Systems
Copyright (C) 2013 Simon Horman
Copyright (C) 2013 Simon Baatz <gmbnomis@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Shuah Khan <shuah.kh@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Shaohua Li <shli@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Sergey Lapin <slapin@ossfans.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Seiji Aguchi <seiji.aguchi@hds.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Sebastian Reichel <sre@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Sebastian Reichel
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. https://www.samsung.com
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Tomasz Figa
<t.figa@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Sylwester Nawrocki
<s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Authors: Kamil Debski
<k.debski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Authors: Girish K S
<ks.giri@samsung.com> Yuvaraj Kumar C D <yuvaraj.cd@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Sylwester Nawrocki
<s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Kamil Debski
<k.debski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Jingoo Han
<jg1.han@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Jacek Anaszewski
<j.anaszewski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Beomho Seo
<beomho.seo@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 STMicroelectronics Limited Author: Stephen Gallimore
<stephen.gallimore@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 STMicroelectronics Limited Author: Srinivas Kandagatla
<srinivas.kandagatla@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited. http://www.st.com
Copyright (C) 2013 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited. Authors: Srinivas
Kandagatla <srinivas.kandagatla@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited. Author: Stuart Menefy
<stuart.menefy@st.com> Author: Srinivas Kandagatla <srinivas.kandagatla@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited. Author(s): Srinivas
Kandagatla <srinivas.kandagatla@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited.
Copyright (C) 2013 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited Author: Stephen Gallimore
<stephen.gallimore@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 STMicroelectronics
Copyright (C) 2013 ST-Ericsson SA Written on behalf of Linaro for ST-Ericsson
Copyright (C) 2013 ST-Ericsson SA Author: Ulf Hansson <ulf.hansson@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 ST-Ericsson AB Author: Linus Walleij
<linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 ST-Ericsson AB
Copyright (C) 2013 SKTB SKiT, http://www.skitlab.ru/
Copyright (C) 2013 Roman Rolinsky
Copyright (C) 2013 Richard Weinberger <richrd@nod.at>
Copyright (C) 2013 Richard Weinberger <richard@nod.at>
Copyright (C) 2013 Renesas Solutions Corp. Kuninori Morimoto
<kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2013 Renesas Electronics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013 Renesas Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013 Regents of the University of California
Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat, Inc., Johannes Weiner
Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat, Inc., Frederic Weisbecker <fweisbec@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat, Inc., Dave Young <dyoung@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat, Inc. Mark Salter <msalter@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Alex Williamson
<alex.williamson@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat Inc. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat Author: Rob Clark <robdclark@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat
Copyright (C) 2013 Qiang Yu <yuq825@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Politecnico di Torino, Italy TORSEC group --
https://security.polito.it
Copyright (C) 2013 Philipp Zabel, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2013 Philipp Zabel
Copyright (C) 2013 Peter Hurley <peter@hurleysoftware.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Peter Chen
Copyright (C) 2013 Pengutronix, Sascha Hauer <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Pengutronix e.K.
Copyright (C) 2013 Pengutronix Author: Markus Pargmann <mpa@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2013 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 2013 Paratronic, Richard Genoud <richard.genoud@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Pali Rohár <pali@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Oskar Andero <oskar.andero@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Oracle, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Oracle Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Oliver Smith <oliver@8.c.9.b.0.7.4.0.1.0.0.2.ip6.arpa>
Copyright (C) 2013 Obsidian Research Corp Jason Gunthorpe
<jgunthorpe@obsidianresearch.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Noralf Tronnes
Copyright (C) 2013 Newflow Ltd - http://www.newflow.co.uk/
Copyright (C) 2013 Naveen Krishna Chatradhi <ch.naveen@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Nandita Dukkipati <nanditad@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013 MundoReader S.L. Author: Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Michael Stapelberg <michael@stapelberg.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Maxime Ripard <maxime.ripard@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Maxime Ripard
Copyright (C) 2013 Maxime Hadjinlian <maxime.hadjinlian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Maxim Levitsky <maximlevitsky@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Max nibble <nibble.max@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (C) 2013 Marvell Inc. Author: Chao Xie <xiechao.mail@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2013 Mark Salter <msalter@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Marek Belisko <marek@goldelico.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Magnus Damm
Copyright (C) 2013 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2013 Ma Haijun <mahaijuns@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 MEN Mikroelektronik GmbH (www.men.de) Author: Johannes
Thumshirn <johannes.thumshirn@men.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 MEN Mikro Elektronik Nuernberg GmbH
Copyright (C) 2013 Luis Alves <ljalvs@gmail.com> Steven Toth)
Copyright (C) 2013 Luis Alves <ljalvs@gmail.com> July, 6th 2013: Steven Toth and
Georg Acher, Darron Broad, Igor Liplianin
Copyright (C) 2013 Ludovic Desroches <ludovic.desroches@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Lubomir Rintel <lkundrak@v3.sk>
Copyright (C) 2013 Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Linux Foundation
Copyright (C) 2013 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro. Viresh Kumar <viresh.kumar@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro.
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro Ltd; <roy.franz@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro Ltd
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro Limited. Written by: Yi Li (yi.li@linaro.org)
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro Limited. Author: Sandeepa Prabhu
<sandeepa.prabhu@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro Limited Matt Porter <mporter@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro Limited Author: AKASHI Takahiro
<takahiro.akashi@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Linaro Limited
Copyright (C) 2013 Lee Jones <lee.jones@lianro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 LSI
Copyright (C) 2013 Kuninori Morimoto <kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Kosagi https://www.kosagi.com
Copyright (C) 2013 Kirill V Tkhai (tkhai@yandex.ru)
Copyright (C) 2013 Jozsef Kadlecsik <kadlec@netfilter.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Jonas Jensen <jonas.jensen@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Jonas Jensen
Copyright (C) 2013 Jonas Gorski <jonas.gorski@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Jonas Gorski <jogo@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 John Crispin <blogic@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Johan Hovold <jhovold@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Jiri Kosina
Copyright (C) 2013 Jens Kuske <jenskuske@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Jean-Jacques Hiblot <jjhiblot@traphandler.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Intel, Inc. Author: Mike Lockwood <lockwood@android.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Intel, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Intel Corporation; author Matt Fleming
Copyright (C) 2013 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2013 Intel Corporation Author: Tim Chen
<tim.c.chen@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Intel Corporation Author: Andy Shevchenko
<andriy.shevchenko@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013 Intel Corp. Author: Chen, Gong <gong.chen@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Inktank Storage, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 Imagination Technologies Author: Paul Burton
<paul.burton@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Ideas on board SPRL
Copyright (C) 2013 Ideas On Board SPRL
Copyright (C) 2013 ISEE 2007 SL - http://www.isee.biz/
Copyright (C) 2013 ISEE 2007 SL - http://www.isee.biz
Copyright (C) 2013 IBM Corp. All rights reserved. Author: Alexey Kardashevskiy
<aik@ozlabs.ru>
Copyright (C) 2013 IBM
Copyright (C) 2013 Huawei Tech. Co., Ltd. Jiang Liu <jiang.liu@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Huawei Ltd. Author: Jiang Liu <liuj97@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Horms Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 Hisilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 Henrik Nordström <Henrik Nordström>
Copyright (C) 2013 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2013 HUAWEI Author: Cai Zhiyong <caizhiyong@huawei.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Guenter Roeck <linux@roeck-us.net>
Copyright (C) 2013 Guangliang Zhao, <lucienchao@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Greg Ungerer <gerg@uclinux.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Google, Inc., Stephane Eranian
Copyright (C) 2013 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Google, Inc
Copyright (C) 2013 GnuBIO Inc
Copyright (C) 2013 GSI Helmholtz Centre for Heavy Ion Research GmbH
Copyright (C) 2013 Fusion IO. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013 Fujitsu.
Copyright (C) 2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Varun Sethi
<varun.sethi@freescale.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Free Electrons
Copyright (C) 2013 Fred Richter <frichter@hauppauge.com> Michael Krufky
Copyright (C) 2013 Frank Schäfer <fschaefer.oss@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Florian Fainelli <f.fainelli@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Faraday Technology Corporation Author: Yuan-Hsin Chen
<yhchen@faraday-tech.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Faraday Technology Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013 Facebook. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2013 Ezequiel Garcia <ezequiel@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Enrico Mioso <mrkiko.rs@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Emilio López <emilio@elopez.com.ar>
Copyright (C) 2013 Eduardo Valentin <eduardo.valentin@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Du, Changbin <changbin.du@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Douglas Gilbert <dgilbert@interlog.com>, Robert Nelson
<robertcnelson@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Douglas Gilbert <dgilbert@interlog.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Dmitriy B. <rzk333@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Dialog Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 Davidlohr Bueso <davidlohr@hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Davidlohr Bueso <davidlohr.bueso@hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 David Herrmann <dh.herrmann@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Daniel Tang <tangrs@tangrs.id.au>
Copyright (C) 2013 DENX Software Engineering
Copyright (C) 2013 Cypress Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2013 Craig McGeachie
Copyright (C) 2013 Corentin LABBE <clabbe.montjoie@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Cogent Embedded, Inc., <source@cogentembedded.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Cogent Embedded, Inc. <source@cogentembedded.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Cogent Embedded, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Citrix Systems R&D ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 Citrix Systems R&D Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 Citrix Systems
Copyright (C) 2013 Cisco Systems, Inc, 2013.
Copyright (C) 2013 Christian Vogelgsang
Copyright (C) 2013 Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright (C) 2013 Chanho Min <chanho.min@lge.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Cavium, Inc. Authors: Sanjay Lal <sanjayl@kymasys.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Cavium Inc. Author: Vijaya Kumar K
<vijaya.kumar@caviumnetworks.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Carsten Emde <C.Emde@osadl.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Carlo Caione <carlo@caione.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Capella Microsystems Inc. Author: Kevin Tsai
<ktsai@capellamicro.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Canonical Ltd. Choice of algorithm:
Copyright (C) 2013 Bruno Randolf <br1@einfach.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 Broadcom Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013 Boris BREZILLON <b.brezillon@overkiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Boris BREZILLON <b.brezillon.dev@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Benjamin Tissoires <benjamin.tissoires@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 BayHub Technology Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 Avionic Design GmbH
Copyright (C) 2013 Atmel, 2016 Andras Szemzo <szemzo.andras@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Atmel, 2013 Ludovic Desroches <ludovic.desroches@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Atmel, 2013 Josh Wu <josh.wu@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Atmel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2013 Atmel Corporation Bo Shen <voice.shen@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013 Antti Palosaari <crope@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2013 Andrey Smirnov
Copyright (C) 2013 Andrey Moiseev <o2g.org.ru@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
Copyright (C) 2013 Altera Corporation <www.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 Altera Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013 Alistair Popple, IBM Corp
Copyright (C) 2013 Alexander Shiyan <shc_work@mail.ru>
Copyright (C) 2013 Aeroflex Gaisler AB
Copyright (C) 2013 Aeroflex Gaisler
Copyright (C) 2013 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 Adam Porter <porter.adam@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 ARM Ltd. Author: Lorenzo Pieralisi
<lorenzo.pieralisi@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 ARM Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2013 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2013 AMS AG
Copyright (C) 2013 - Virtual Open Systems Author: Antonios Motakis
<a.motakis@virtualopensystems.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 - Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it> HCE Engineering
Copyright (C) 2013 - ARM Ltd Author: Marc Zyngier <marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 - 2021 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2013 - 2019 ARM Ltd. Sudeep Holla <sudeep.holla@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 - 2017 Linaro, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 - 2017 Linaro Ltd. <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 - 2017 Linaro Ltd <ard.biesheuvel@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2013 - 2015 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2013 - 2015 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2013 - 2015 Fujitsu Semiconductor, Ltd Vincent Yang
<vincent.yang@tw.fujitsu.com>
Copyright (C) 2013 - 2014 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2013 - 2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2013 - 2014 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com
Author: Kishon Vijay Abraham I <kishon@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2020 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2019 by the following authors: Wladimir J. van der Laan
<laanwj@gmail.com> Christian Gmeiner <christian.gmeiner@gmail.com> Lucas Stach
<l.stach@pengutronix.de> Russell King <rmk@arm.linux.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 2012-2019 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012-2019 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012-2019 ARM Limited or its affiliates.
Copyright (C) 2012-2019 ARM Limited (or its affiliates). 
Copyright (C) 2012-2019 ARM Limited (or its affiliates).
Copyright (C) 2012-2018 by the following authors: Wladimir J. van der Laan
<laanwj@gmail.com> Christian Gmeiner <christian.gmeiner@gmail.com> Lucas Stach
<l.stach@pengutronix.de> Russell King <rmk@arm.linux.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 2012-2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Dave Gerlach, Vaibhav Bedia
Copyright (C) 2012-2018 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Vaibhav Bedia, Dave Gerlach
Copyright (C) 2012-2018 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (C) 2012-2018 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012-2018 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2012-2017 by the following authors: Wladimir J. van der Laan
<laanwj@gmail.com> Christian Gmeiner <christian.gmeiner@gmail.com> Lucas Stach
<l.stach@pengutronix.de> Russell King <rmk@arm.linux.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 2012-2017 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2017 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2017 Hideep, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2017 Cavium Inc. Authors: David Daney
<david.daney@cavium.com> Peter Swain <pswain@cavium.com> Steven J. Hill
<steven.hill@cavium.com> Jan Glauber <jglauber@cavium.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2017 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2017 ASPEED Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2016, Yann Collet.
Copyright (C) 2012-2016 by the following authors: Wladimir J. van der Laan
<laanwj@gmail.com> Christian Gmeiner <christian.gmeiner@gmail.com> Lucas Stach
<l.stach@pengutronix.de> Russell King <rmk@arm.linux.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 2012-2016 Smart Energy Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2016 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012-2016 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2016 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2012-2016 Hans Verkuil <hans.verkuil@cisco.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2016 Alexander Shiyan <shc_work@mail.ru>
Copyright (C) 2012-2015, 2018-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2015 Spreadtrum Communications Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2015 Linus Walleij
Copyright (C) 2012-2015 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012-2015 Google, Inc
Copyright (C) 2012-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2015 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012-2015 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2015 Altera Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2015 - ARM Ltd Author: Marc Zyngier <marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, Raydium Semiconductor Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2022 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2021-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2019-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2019-2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2018-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2018-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2018-2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2018-2019, 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2018-2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2018, 2021-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2018, 2020-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2018, 2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2018, 2020 - 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014, 2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Girish S Ghongdemath Nishanth Menon
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Philipp Zabel, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 LSI Corporation mailto:DL-MPTFusionLinux@lsi.com
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 LSI Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 John McMaster <JohnDMcMaster@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Cisco Systems
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Canonical Ltd (Maarten Lankhorst)
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Boris BREZILLON <b.brezillon@overkiz.com> 2014-2015 Gaël
PORTAY <g.portay@overkiz.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2014 Antti Palosaari <crope@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013, Samsung Electronics, Co., Ltd. Andrzej Hajda
<a.hajda@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013, NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2013, Guennadi Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013, Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen
<lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Tieto Poland
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Texas Instruments, Inc. Andrii Tseglytskyi
<andrii.tseglytskyi@ti.com> Nishanth Menon <nm@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Author: Keshava Munegowda <keshava_mgowda@ti.com> Author: Roger Quadros
<rogerq@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Philippe De Muyter <phdm@macqel.be>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 MundoReader S.L. Author: Heiko Stuebner
<heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 MundoReader S.L.
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Martin Liska <marxin.liska@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Linus Walleij
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Linaro Ltd. Author: Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Linaro Limited
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Jonas Gorski <jogo@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 HiSilicon Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Cavium Inc., All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Canonical Ltd
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Avionic Design GmbH
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Altera Corporation <www.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2013 Allwinner Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012-14 Renesas Solutions Corp. Kuninori Morimoto
<kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-14 Intel Corporation Author: Jeeja KP <jeeja.kp@intel.com>
Omair Mohammed Abdullah <omair.m.abdullah@intel.com> Vinod Koul
,vinod.koul@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012,2019 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012,2015 Eric Dumazet <edumazet@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2012,2013 Infineon Technologies
Copyright (C) 2012,2013 Alexander Shiyan <shc_work@mail.ru>
Copyright (C) 2012,2013 - ARM Ltd Author: Marc Zyngier <marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2012,2013 - ARM Ltd
Copyright (C) 2012, by Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2012, Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2012, Steven King <sfking@fdwdc.com>
Copyright (C) 2012, Samsung Electronics, Co., Ltd. Sylwester Nawrocki
<s.nawrocki@samsung.com> Andrzej Hajda <a.hajda@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012, RockChip
Copyright (C) 2012, Red Hat, Inc. Rafael Aquini <aquini@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2012, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012, Michel Lespinasse <walken@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2012, Maarten ter Huurne <maarten@treewalker.org>
Copyright (C) 2012, Linaro, Sangwook Lee <sangwook.lee@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2012, Linaro
Copyright (C) 2012, LG Electronics, Namhyung Kim <namhyung.kim@lge.com>
Copyright (C) 2012, Jiri Olsa <jolsa@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2012, Jeff Layton <jlayton@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2012, Intel Corporation Authors: Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com> Mathias Nyman <mathias.nyman@linux.intel.com>
Rafael J. Wysocki <rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012, Intel Corporation Authors: Mathias Nyman
<mathias.nyman@linux.intel.com> Mika Westerberg
<mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012, Intel Corp. Author: Rafael J. Wysocki
<rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012, Insignal Co,. Ltd, Homin Lee <suapapa@insignal.co.kr>
Copyright (C) 2012, Anish Kumar <anish198519851985@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012, Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen
<lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright (C) 2012, ARM Ltd. Author: Will Deacon <will.deacon@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2012, 2020 Oliver Hartkopp <socketcan@hartkopp.net>
Copyright (C) 2012, 2019, 2020 Linaro Ltd. Author:
<benjamin.gaignard@linaro.org> for ST-Ericsson.
Copyright (C) 2012, 2016 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2012, 2014 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2012, 2014 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 Red Hat Inc, Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo
<acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2012, 2013 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2012, 2013 Minchan Kim
Copyright (C) 2012, 2013 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012, 2013 Guenter Roeck <linux@roeck-us.net>
Copyright (C) 2012 egnite GmbH <info@egnite.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 by Alan Stern
Copyright (C) 2012 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Vista Silicon SL Javier Martin <javier.martin@vista-
silicon.com> Xavier Duret
Copyright (C) 2012 Vista Silicon S.L. Javier Martin, <javier.martin@vista-
silicon.com> Xavier Duret
Copyright (C) 2012 Vayavya Labs Pvt. Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012 Variscite Ltd. - https://www.variscite.com
Copyright (C) 2012 VMware, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 V Lab Technologies Teddy Reed <teddy@prosauce.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Tony Prisk <linux@prisktech.co.nz>
Copyright (C) 2012 Tomasz Figa <tomasz.figa@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Tobias Klauser <tklauser@distanz.ch>
Copyright (C) 2012 Thomas Petazzoni <thomas.petazzoni@free-electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Thomas Petazzoni
Copyright (C) 2012 Thomas Mair <thomas.mair86@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Thomas Mair <thomas.mair86@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Thomas Langer <thomas.langer@lantiq.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc. Written by Tony Lindgren
<tony@atomide.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc. Thara Gopinath <thara@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc. Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc. - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Santosh Shilimkar
<santosh.shilimkar@ti.com> Sricharan <r.sricharan@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Ltd Author: Archit Taneja <archit@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Author:
Archit Taneja <archit@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com Author:
Sebastian Andrzej Siewior <bigeasy@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com All
rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Contact:
Eduardo Valentin <eduardo.valentin@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com Author:
Kishon Vijay Abraham I <kishon@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Inc. Peter Ujfalusi <peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Author: Tomi Valkeinen
<tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Author: Rob Clark <robdclark@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Author: Peter Ujfalusi
<peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments Author: Jon Hunter <jon-hunter@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2012 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Telit, 2012 Fabio Porcedda <fabio.porcedda@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2012 Sylwester Nawrocki <sylvester.nawrocki@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Sven Schnelle <svens@stackframe.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Steven Toth <stoth@kernellabs.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Stephen Warren
Copyright (C) 2012 Stephane Grosjean <s.grosjean@peak-system.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Sonal Santan <sonal.santan@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Simon Budig, <simon.budig@kernelconcepts.de> Daniel Wagener
<daniel.wagener@kernelconcepts.de> Lothar Waßmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de> (DT
support)
Copyright (C) 2012 Simo Sorce <simo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Shuah Khan <shuahkhan@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Seth Jennings <sjenning@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Sean Young <sean@mess.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Scott Lin <scott.lin@tw.synaptics.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2012 Sascha Hauer <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics. Kyungmin Park
<kyungmin.park@samsung.com> Tomasz Figa <t.figa@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics.
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics SangYoung Son <hello.son@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics MyungJoo Ham <myungjoo.ham@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Jonghwa Lee <jonghwa3.lee@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Donggeun Kim <dg77.kim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: YoungJun Cho
<yj44.cho@samsung.com> Eunchul Kim <chulspro.kim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: Joonyoung Shim
<jy0922.shim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: Inki Dae
<inki.dae@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: Eunchul Kim
<chulspro.kim@samsung.com> Jinyoung Jeon <jy0.jeon@samsung.com> Sangmin Lee
<lsmin.lee@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Sylwester Nawrocki
<s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Jingoo Han
<jg1.han@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Chiwoong Byun <woong.byun@samsung.com>
Jonghwa Lee <jonghwa3.lee@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics Author: Donggeun Kim
<dg77.kim@samsung.com> Author: MyungJoo Ham <myungjoo.ham@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electronics
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electrnoics SangYoung Son <hello.son@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electrnoics Chiwoong Byun <woong.byun@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electrnoics Chanwoo Choi <cw00.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Samsung Electornics Jonghwa Lee <jonghwa3.lee@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 STRATO. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 STMicroelectronics Limited
Copyright (C) 2012 ST-Ericsson SA Written on behalf of Linaro for ST-Ericsson
Copyright (C) 2012 ST-Ericsson SA Author: Ulf Hansson <ulf.hansson@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 ST-Ericsson
Copyright (C) 2012 ST Microelectronics author: Federico Vaga
<federico.vaga@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ST Microelectronics Viresh Kumar <vireshk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 ST Microelectronics Viresh Kumar <viresh.kumar@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 ST Microelectronics Vipin Kumar <vipin.kumar@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ST Microelectronics Shiraz Hashim
<shiraz.linux.kernel@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ST Microelectronics Rajeev Kumar<rajeevkumar.linux@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ST Microelectronics Rajeev Kumar
<rajeevkumar.linux@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ST Microelectronics Ltd. Shiraz Hashim
<shiraz.linux.kernel@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ST Microelectronics Ltd. Deepak Sikri <deepak.sikri@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ST Microelectronics Deepak Sikri <deepak.sikri@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Ryan Mallon <rmallon@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2012 Roland Stigge <stigge@antcom.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Roland Stigge
Copyright (C) 2012 Robin Gareus <robin@gareus.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Rob Herring
Copyright (C) 2012 Richard Cochran <richardcochran@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Renesas Solutions Corp. Kuninori Morimoto
<kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2012 Renesas Electronics Europe Ltd
Copyright (C) 2012 Renesas Electronics Europe
Copyright (C) 2012 Renesas Electronics Corporation Author: Guennadi
Liakhovetski, <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012 Renesas Electronics Corp. Author: Guennadi Liakhovetski
<g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Renesas Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012 Regents of the University of California
Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat, Inc., Frederic Weisbecker
Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved. Author: Alex Williamson
<alex.williamson@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat Inc, Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Red Hat
Copyright (C) 2012 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Rafał Miłecki <zajec5@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>
Copyright (C) 2012 Rabin Vincent <rabin at rab.in>
Copyright (C) 2012 ROHM CO.,LTD.
Copyright (C) 2012 RDA Micro Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Philipp Zabel, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2012 Phil Edworthy
Copyright (C) 2012 Peter Schildmann <linux@schildmann.info>
Copyright (C) 2012 Peter Meerwald <pmeerw@pmeerw.net>
Copyright (C) 2012 Paul Parsons <lost.distance@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2012 Parallels Inc. and Google Inc. Authors: Glauber Costa and
Suleiman Souhlal
Copyright (C) 2012 Pantelis Antoniou <panto@antoniou-consulting.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Pali Rohár <pali@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Open Kernel Labs <www.ok-labs.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Olivier Sobrie <olivier@sobrie.be>
Copyright (C) 2012 Oliver Hartkopp <socketcan@hartkopp.net>
Copyright (C) 2012 OMICRON electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2012 Numascale AS. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 Nokia Corporation Contact: Sakari Ailus
<sakari.ailus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Nokia Corporation Contact: Sakari Ailus <sakari.ailus@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2012 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu <nobuhiro.iwamatsu.yj@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu <iwamatsu@nigauri.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 National Instruments Corp.
Copyright (C) 2012 National Instruments
Copyright (C) 2012 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 Mike Sinkovsky <msink@permonline.ru>
Copyright (C) 2012 Michael Krufky <mkrufky@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Michael D. Taht <dave.taht@bufferbloat.net>
Copyright (C) 2012 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (C) 2012 Mentor Graphics Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Maxime Ripard
Copyright (C) 2012 Matthias Kaehlcke Author: Matthias Kaehlcke
<matthias@kaehlcke.net>
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell Technology Ltd. Yunfan Zhang <yfzhang@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. Authors: Zhou Zhu
<zzhu3@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. Authors: Guoqing Li
<ligq@marvell.com> Lisa Du <cldu@marvell.com> Zhou Zhu <zzhu3@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell Technology Group Ltd. Author: Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell International Ltd. Qiao Zhou <zhouqiao@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell International Ltd. Joseph(Yossi) Hanin
<yhanin@marvell.com> Yi Zhang <yizhang@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell International Ltd. Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@marvell.com> Qiao Zhou <zhouqiao@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell International Ltd. Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@marvell.com> Joseph(Yossi) Hanin <yhanin@marvell.com> Qiao Zhou
<zhouqiao@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell Chao Xie <xiechao.mail@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Marvell
Copyright (C) 2012 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de> on behalf of DENX Software
Engineering GmbH
Copyright (C) 2012 Marek Vasut <marex@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Malcolm Priestley (tvboxspy@gmail.com) Beta Driver
Copyright (C) 2012 Malcolm Priestley (tvboxspy@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2012 Magnus Damm
Copyright (C) 2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc. Authors: Sanjay Lal
<sanjayl@kymasys.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved. Authors: Yann Le
Du <ledu@kymasys.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved. Authors: Sanjay
Lal <sanjayl@kymasys.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Lothar Felten <lothar.felten@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Lothar Felten <l-felten@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Linux Foundation
Copyright (C) 2012 Linus Walleij
Copyright (C) 2012 Linaro, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012 Linaro Limited
Copyright (C) 2012 Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Lantiq GmbH
Copyright (C) 2012 LSI Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012 LSI
Copyright (C) 2012 Kuninori Morimoto <kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Konstantin Khlebnikov
Copyright (C) 2012 Kevin Cernekee <cernekee@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@mbnet.fi>
Copyright (C) 2012 Jonas Gorski <jonas.gorski@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 John Crispin <blogic@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Johannes Goetzfried Johannes.Goetzfried@informatik.stud.uni-
erlangen.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Jeremy Kerr <jeremy.kerr@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Jean-Francois Moine <http://moinejf.free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Javier Martinez Canillas <javier@dowhile0.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Jamie Lentin
Copyright (C) 2012 Ivaylo Dimitrov <freemangordon@abv.bg>
Copyright (C) 2012 Invensense, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 InvenSense Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012 International Business Machines Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Intel, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation Author: Yuanhan Liu
<yuanhan.liu@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation Author: Jim Kukunas
<james.t.kukunas@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation Author: H. Peter Anvin
<hpa@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation Author: Bin Yang <bin.yang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corp Author: Durgadoss R <durgadoss.r@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corp (tianyu.lan@intel.com)
Copyright (C) 2012 Intel Corp
Copyright (C) 2012 Innovative Converged Devices(ICD)
Copyright (C) 2012 Iain Paton <ipaton0@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012 Huacai Chen (chenhc@lemote.com)
Copyright (C) 2012 Horms Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012 Hitachi, Ltd. Created by Yoshihiro Yunomae
<yoshihiro.yunomae.ez@hitachi.com> Masami Hiramatsu
<masami.hiramatsu.pt@hitachi.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Heiko Stuebner <heiko@sntech.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Hans-Frieder Vogt <hfvogt@gmx.net>
Copyright (C) 2012 Hans Verkuil <hans.verkuil@cisco.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Guenter Roeck <linux@roeck-us.net>
Copyright (C) 2012 Greg Kroah-Hartman (gregkh@linuxfoundation.org)
Copyright (C) 2012 Google, Inc. Will Drewry <wad@chromium.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Google, Inc. Author: Benson Leung <bleung@chromium.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Google, Inc
Copyright (C) 2012 Fusion-io All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Frank Schäfer <fschaefer.oss@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Florian Vaussard, EPFL Mobots group
Copyright (C) 2012 Fenghua Yu <fenghua.yu@intel.com> H Peter Anvin
<hpa@zytor.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Federico Vaga <federico.vaga@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 FUJITSU SEMICONDUCTOR LIMITED
Copyright (C) 2012 Ezequiel Garcia elezegarcia--a.t--gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Enric Balletbo i Serra <eballetbo@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Durgadoss R <durgadoss.r@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Dmitry Torokhov <dmitry.torokhov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Dialog Semiconductor Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012 Dialog Semiconductor GmbH
Copyright (C) 2012 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2012 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2012 David Gibson, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2012 Dario Faggioli <raistlin@linux.it>, Juri Lelli
<juri.lelli@gmail.com>, Michael Trimarchi <michael@amarulasolutions.com>, Fabio
Checconi <fchecconi@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Daniel Schwierzeck <daniel.schwierzeck@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Daniel Mack
Copyright (C) 2012 Dan Luedtke
Copyright (C) 2012 Damien Zammit <damien@zamaudio.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Damian Hobson-Garcia
Copyright (C) 2012 DENX Software Engineering Anatolij Gustschin <agust@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Cypress Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2012 Chris Boot, Simon Arlott, Stephen Warren
Copyright (C) 2012 Chris Boot
Copyright (C) 2012 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Carsten Emde <C.Emde@osadl.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Canonical Ltd
Copyright (C) 2012 Calxeda, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012 Bojan Smojver <bojan@rexursive.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Bill Pemberton (wfp5p@virginia.edu)
Copyright (C) 2012 Bertrand Achard (nvram access fixes)
Copyright (C) 2012 Bernd Krumboeck (krumboeck@universalnet.at)
Copyright (C) 2012 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2012 Bastian Hecht
Copyright (C) 2012 Avionic Design GmbH
Copyright (C) 2012 Atmel, 2012 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Atmel, 2012 Hong Xu <hong.xu@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Atmel
Copyright (C) 2012 Antti Palosaari <crope@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2012 Anssi Hannula <anssi.hannula@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2012 Andrew Lunn <andrew@lunn.ch>
Copyright (C) 2012 Andrew Lunn
Copyright (C) 2012 Analog Devices Inc. Author: Lars-Peter Clausen
<lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 Amit Daniel <amit.kachhap@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 Altera Corporation <www.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Altera Corporation
Copyright (C) 2012 Altera <www.altera.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Alfredo J. Delaiti <alfredodelaiti@netscape.net>
Copyright (C) 2012 Alexandros C. Couloumbis <alex@ozo.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Alexandra Chin <alexandra.chin@tw.synaptics.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 Alexander Shiyan <shc_work@mail.ru>
Copyright (C) 2012 Alexander Block. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2012 Alan Ott <alan@signal11.us> Signal 11 Software
Copyright (C) 2012 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Author: Joerg Roedel
<jroedel@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2012 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Author: Joerg Roedel
<joerg.roedel@amd.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ARM Ltd. Modified by Will Deacon <will.deacon@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ARM Ltd. Authors:    Catalin Marinas
<catalin.marinas@arm.com> Will Deacon <will.deacon@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ARM Ltd. Author: Marc Zyngier <marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ARM Ltd. Author: Catalin Marinas <catalin.marinas@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ARM Ltd. Author:	Marc Zyngier <marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012 ARM Limited Author: Will Deacon <will.deacon@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2012 AK signal Brno a.s. 2012 Jiri Prchal
<jiri.prchal@aksignal.cz>
Copyright (C) 2012 - Virtual Open Systems and Columbia University Authors: Rusty
Russell <rusty@rustcorp.com.au> Christoffer Dall <c.dall@virtualopensystems.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 - Virtual Open Systems and Columbia University Authors:
Christoffer Dall <c.dall@virtualopensystems.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 - Virtual Open Systems and Columbia University Author:
Christoffer Dall <c.dall@virtualopensystems.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 - ARM Ltd Author: Marc Zyngier <marc.zyngier@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2022 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2018 Xilinx, Inc Author: Punnaiah Choudary Kalluri
<punnaiah@xilinx.com> Author: Naga Sureshkumar Relli <nagasure@xilinx.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2017 Rafał Miłecki <rafal@milecki.pl>
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2014 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2014 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2014 Cisco Systems
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2014 Allwinner Tech Pan Nan <pannan@allwinnertech.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2013 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Sylwester Nawrocki
<s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Sylwester
Nawrocki <s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2012 - 2013 Pali Rohár <pali@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2012 (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2012	Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd(http://www.samsung.com)
Copyright (C) 2011. Freescale Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011-2020 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2020 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2011-2019 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011-2017, Red Hat Inc, Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2017 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2017 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011-2016, Yann Collet.
Copyright (C) 2011-2016 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2016 Chelsio Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011-2015, Yann Collet.
Copyright (C) 2011-2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Santosh Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com> sricharan <r.sricharan@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2015 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Santosh Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com> Sricharan <r.sricharan@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2015 John Crispin <blogic@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2011-2015 Daniel Schwierzeck <daniel.schwierzeck@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2015 Cypress Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2015 Bernd Porr, mail@berndporr.me.uk
Copyright (C) 2011-2014 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011-2014 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011-2014 Joshua Kinard <kumba@gentoo.org>.
Copyright (C) 2011-2014 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Texas Instruments, Inc. Santosh Shilimkar
<santosh.shilimkar@ti.com> Rajendra Nayak <rnayak@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Author: Keshava Munegowda <keshava_mgowda@ti.com> Author: Roger Quadros
<rogerq@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Stephane Grosjean <s.grosjean@peak-system.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Samsung India Software Operations
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Pali Rohár <pali@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 One Laptop Per Child
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Jozsef Kadlecsik <kadlec@netfilter.org>
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Jonas Gorski <jogo@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Eric Dumazet (eric.dumazet@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2011-2013 ASIX
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 by Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix e.K.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Vayavya Labs Pvt Ltd
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Van Jacobson <van@pollere.net>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Tobias Klauser <tklauser@distanz.ch>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Texas Instruments, Inc. Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Vaibhav Hiremath <hvaibhav@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Author: J Keerthy <j-keerthy@ti.com> Author: Moiz Sonasath <m-sonasath@ti.com>
Eduardo Valentin <eduardo.valentin@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Texas Instruments Inc. Contact: Eduardo Valentin
<eduardo.valentin@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Synopsys (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Stephane Grosjean <s.grosjean@peak-system.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 ST-Ericsson SA Written on behalf of Linaro for ST-
Ericsson
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 ST Microelectronics Author: Vincenzo Frascino
<vincenzo.frascino@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Red Hat, Inc., Peter Zijlstra
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Red Hat UK.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Oracle Co. Liang Tang <liang.tang@oracle.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 One Laptop per Child Foundation.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 NVIDIA CORPORATION. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Mike Turquette, Linaro Ltd <mturquette@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Linaro Ltd <mturquette@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 LAPIS SEMICONDUCTOR Co., LTD.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Kathleen Nichols <nichols@pollere.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 International Business Machines Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Guennadi Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 CERN (www.cern.ch) Author: Samuel Iglesias Gonsalvez
<siglesias@igalia.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 Avionic Design GmbH
Copyright (C) 2011-2012 - NVIDIA, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011-12 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2011-12 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2011--2012 Nokia Corporation Contact: Sakari Ailus
<sakari.ailus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2011--2012 Nokia Corporation Contact: Sakari Ailus
<sakari.ailus@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2011,2018 Michael Schmitz (schmitz@debian.org)
Copyright (C) 2011,2013,2014 Linaro Limited.
Copyright (C) 2011,2012 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2011,2012 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu <nobuhiro.iwamatsu.yj@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2011,2012 NVIDIA Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2011, Thomas Gleixner
Copyright (C) 2011, Texas Instruments, Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2011, Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Sylwester Nawrocki
<s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011, Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2011, SUSE, Jan Kara <jack@suse.cz>
Copyright (C) 2011, Red Hat Inc, Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2011, Nuvoton Technology Corporation. Dan Morav
<dan.morav@nuvoton.com>
Copyright (C) 2011, Matt Porter
Copyright (C) 2011, Maarten ter Huurne <maarten@treewalker.org>
Copyright (C) 2011, Linaro Limited
Copyright (C) 2011, Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2011, Javier Martin <javier.martin@vista-silicon.com>
Copyright (C) 2011, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011, IBM Corporation Author: Suzuki Poulose <suzuki@in.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2011, Guennadi Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2011, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 2011, 2017, 2018 Maciej S. Szmigiero (mail@maciej.szmigiero.name)
Copyright (C) 2011, 2017 Maciej S. Szmigiero (mail@maciej.szmigiero.name)
Copyright (C) 2011, 2015, 2016 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2013, NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011, 2013 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2012 by Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix e.K.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2012 STRATO. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2012 Roland Stigge <stigge@antcom.de>
Copyright (C) 2011, 2012 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2012 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu <nobuhiro.iwamatsu.yj@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2011, 2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2012 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011, 2012 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011, <lokec@ccs.neu.edu>
Copyright (C) 2011 taskit GmbH Author: Christian Glindkamp
<christian.glindkamp@taskit.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 taskit GmbH
Copyright (C) 2011 secunet Security Networks AG
Copyright (C) 2011 matt mooney <mfm@muteddisk.com> 2005-2008 Takahiro Hirofuchi
Copyright (C) 2011 matt mooney <mfm@muteddisk.com> 2005-2007 Takahiro Hirofuchi
Copyright (C) 2011 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (C) 2011 by Kevin Cernekee (cernekee@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2011 by Jarod Wilson <jarod@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Yadwinder Singh (yadi.brar01@gmail.com) Jaswinder Singh
(jaswinder.singh@linaro.org)
Copyright (C) 2011 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2011 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix e.K.
Copyright (C) 2011 Wistron Co.Ltd Joseph Lai <joseph_lai@wistron.com> Alan Cox
<alan@linux.intel.com> Nathan Royer in 2011.
Copyright (C) 2011 Wind River Systems, written by Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-
mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2011 Wind River Systems, written by Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-
mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Wind River Systems
Copyright (C) 2011 Weinmann Medical GmbH Author: Nikolaus Voss
<n.voss@weinmann.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Walter Goossens
Copyright (C) 2011 Tobias Waldvogel <tobias.waldvogel@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Tobias Klauser <tklauser@distanz.ch>
Copyright (C) 2011 Thomas Langer <thomas.langer@lantiq.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Thomas Chou <thomas@wytron.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2011 Thomas Chou
Copyright (C) 2011 Theodore Kilgore <kilgota@auburn.edu>
Copyright (C) 2011 The Chromium OS Authors.
Copyright (C) 2011 The AC100 Kernel Team <ac100@lists.launchpad.net>
Copyright (C) 2011 The AC100 Kernel Team <ac100@lists.lauchpad.net>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc. Tero Kristo <t-kristo@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc. Santosh Shilimkar
<santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc. Rajendra Nayak <rnayak@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc. Rajendra Nayak
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc. Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc. Mike Turquette <mturquette@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc. - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Tarun
Kanti DebBarma <tarun.kanti@ti.com> Thara Gopinath <thara@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ J
Keerthy <j-keerthy@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Author:
Rob Clark <rob@ti.com> Andy Gross <andy.gross@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Author:
Rob Clark <rob@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Author:
Rob Clark <rob.clark@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Author:
Chandrabhanu Mahapatra <cmahapatra@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Author:
Archit Taneja <archit@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/ Contact:
Eduardo Valentin <eduardo.valentin@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Inc
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Author: Tomi Valkeinen
<tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Author: Rob Clark <rob@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Author: Raja Mani <raja_mani@ti.com>
Author: Manjunatha Halli <manjunatha_halli@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Author: Mayuresh Janorkar <mayur@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Author: Chandrabhanu Mahapatra
<cmahapatra@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments Author: Archit Taneja <archit@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Corporation Felipe Balbi <balbi@ti.com> Santosh
Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com> sricharan <r.sricharan@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Texas Corporation Felipe Balbi <balbi@ti.com> Santosh
Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com> Sricharan <r.sricharan@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Tejun Heo <tj@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Taehun Kim <kth3321 <at> gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Sylwester Nawrocki <s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Steven Toth <stoth@kernellabs.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Steve Glendinning <steve.glendinning@shawell.net>
Copyright (C) 2011 Steffen Klassert <steffen.klassert@secunet.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Stefan Hajnoczi <stefanha@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Sigfox Author: Marc Vertes <marc.vertes@sigfox.com> Harald
Welte <HaraldWelte@viatech.com> Wim Van Sebroeck <wim@iguana.be>
Copyright (C) 2011 Sergiy <piratfm@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2011 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics MyungJoo Ham <myungjoo.ham@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Donggeun Kim <dg77.kim@samsung.com> Amit
Daniel Kachhap <amit.kachhap@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Donggeun Kim <dg77.kim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd MyungJoo Ham
<myungjoo.ham@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: Seung-Woo Kim
<sw0312.kim@samsung.com> Inki Dae <inki.dae@samsung.com> Joonyoung Shim
<jy0922.shim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: Joonyoung Shim
<jy0922.shim@samsung.com> Inki Dae <inki.dae@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Authors: Joonyoung Shim
<jy0922.shim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Joonyoung Shim
<jy0922.shim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Jingoo Han
<jg1.han@samsung.com> Author: Joonyoung Shim <jy0922.shim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Jingoo Han
<jg1.han@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/ Kamil
Debski, <k.debski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. http://www.samsung.com/
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. MyungJoo.Ham
<myungjoo.ham@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. MyungJoo Ham
<myungjoo.ham@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Kamil Debski,
<k.debski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: HeungJun Kim
<riverful.kim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2011 Sam Ravnborg <sam@ravnborg.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 STRATO. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 STRATO AG written by Arne Jansen <sensille@gmx.net>
Copyright (C) 2011 STMicroelectronics Ltd
Copyright (C) 2011 ST-Ericsson SA.
Copyright (C) 2011 ST-Ericsson SA Written on behalf of Linaro for ST-Ericsson
Copyright (C) 2011 ST-Ericsson SA Authors: Mian Yousaf Kaukab
<mian.yousaf.kaukab@stericsson.com> Praveena Nadahally
<praveen.nadahally@stericsson.com> Rajaram Regupathy
<ragupathy.rajaram@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 ST-Ericsson SA 
Copyright (C) 2011 ST Microelectronics Viresh Kumar <vireshk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Rostislav Lisovy <lisovy@gmail.com>, Czech Technical
University in Prague
Copyright (C) 2011 Robert Jarzmik
Copyright (C) 2011 Richard Zhao, Linaro <richard.zhao@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Richard Weinberger <richrd@nod.at>
Copyright (C) 2011 Richard Cochran <richardcochran@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 René Bolldorf <xsecute@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Renesas Solutions Corp. Kuninori Morimoto
<kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat, Inc., Frederic Weisbecker <fweisbec@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat, Inc., Don Zickus <dzickus@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>, Renesas Electronics Corp.
Copyright (C) 2011 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>, Novell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 RICOH COMPANY,LTD
Copyright (C) 2011 Pyramid Technical Consultants, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 ProFUSION Embedded Systems
Copyright (C) 2011 Prashant Shah, pshah.mumbai@gmail.com
Copyright (C) 2011 Philippe Rétornaz
Copyright (C) 2011 Peter Zijlstra
Copyright (C) 2011 Peter Kooiman <pkooiman@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Pengutronix, Sascha Hauer
Copyright (C) 2011 Pengutronix Uwe Kleine-Koenig <u.kleine-
koenig@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Paul Parsons <lost.distance@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2011 Paul Gortmaker.
Copyright (C) 2011 Patrice Chotard
Copyright (C) 2011 Pali Rohár <pali@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 One Laptop per Child
Copyright (C) 2011 Oliver Endriss <o.endriss@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Numascale AS. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 Novell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Novell Co. Jan Beulich <JBeulich@suse.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies).
Copyright (C) 2011 Nokia Corporation Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2011 Nokia Corporation Author: Matti J. Aaltonen
<matti.j.aaltonen@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Nokia Corporation Author: Matti Aaltonen
<matti.j.aaltonen@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu
Copyright (C) 2011 Nitin Gupta
Copyright (C) 2011 NetUP Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 National Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2011 NXP Semiconductors
Copyright (C) 2011 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011 Motorola, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Mike Christie
Copyright (C) 2011 Mika Westerberg
Copyright (C) 2011 Micron Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Max Planck Institute for Gravitational Physics
Copyright (C) 2011 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved. Author: Chao
Xie <chao.xie@marvell.com> Neil Zhang <zhangwm@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2011 Martin Jansen <martin.jansen@opticon.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Martin Groszhauser <mgroszhauser@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Marius Bjoernstad Kotsbak <marius@kotsbak.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Marc Dietrich <marvin24@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Malcolm Priestley (tvboxspy@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2011 Magnus Damm
Copyright (C) 2011 Maciej S. Szmigiero <mail@maciej.szmigiero.name>
Copyright (C) 2011 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Linaro Limited. Written by: Vincent Guittot
Copyright (C) 2011 Linaro Limited
Copyright (C) 2011 Laurent Pinchart (laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com)
Copyright (C) 2011 LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2011 Kuninori Morimoto <kuninori.morimoto.gx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Kuninori Morimoto
Copyright (C) 2011 Kionix, Inc. Written by Chris Hudson <chudson@kionix.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Kees Cook <keescook@chromium.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@mbnet.fi>
Copyright (C) 2011 Joshua Kinard <kumba@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Jon Medhurst <tixy@yxit.co.uk>.
Copyright (C) 2011 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 John Crispin <blogic@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Johan Hovold <jhovold@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Jean-François Moine (http://moinejf.free.fr)
Copyright (C) 2011 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Jarod Wilson <jarod@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Jan Weitzel
Copyright (C) 2011 James Nuss <jamesnuss@nanometrics.ca>
Copyright (C) 2011 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2011 Intel Corporation Authors:   Vinod Koul
<vinod.koul@linux.intel.com> Pierre-Louis Bossart <pierre-
louis.bossart@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Intel Corporation Authors:   Pierre-Louis Bossart <pierre-
louis.bossart@linux.intel.com> Vinod Koul <vinod.koul@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Intel Corporation Author: Andrzej Zaborowski
<balrogg@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011 Instituto Nokia de Tecnologia
Copyright (C) 2011 Ilya Yanok, EmCraft Systems
Copyright (C) 2011 Igalia, S.L. Author: Javier M. Mellid <jmunhoz@igalia.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 ILI Technology Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2011 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2011 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2011 Guenter Roeck.
Copyright (C) 2011 Guennadi Liakhovetski
Copyright (C) 2011 Google, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Google Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Fujitsu. All rights reserved. Written by Miao Xie
<miaox@cn.fujitsu.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Fuel7, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Zhang Jiejing
<jiejing.zhang@freescale.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Ericsson AB.
Copyright (C) 2011 Ed Wildgoose <kernel@wildgooses.com> and Philip Prindeville
<philipp@redfish-solutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Dmitry Eremin-Solenikov
Copyright (C) 2011 Dmitry Artamonow <mad_soft@inbox.ru>
Copyright (C) 2011 Daniel Mack <zonque@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Daniel Hellstrom (daniel@gaisler.com) Aeroflex Gaisler AB
Copyright (C) 2011 DENX Software Engineering GmbH Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2011 Colin Leitner <colin.leitner@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Chris Boot <bootc@bootc.net>
Copyright (C) 2011 Cavium Networks, Inc. Author: Deng-Cheng Zhu
Copyright (C) 2011 Carsten Emde <C.Emde@osadl.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Becky Bruce, Freescale Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2011 Bart Van Assche. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 Atmel, Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Atmel, 2011 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>, 2012
Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Atmel, 2011 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>, 2011
Jean-Christophe PLAGNIOL-VILLARD <plagnioj@jcrosoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Atmel, 2011 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com> 2012
Joachim Eastwood <manabian@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Atmel, 2011 Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Atmel Corporation Josh Wu, <josh.wu@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Atmel
Copyright (C) 2011 Arnaud Patard <arnaud.patard@rtp-net.org>
Copyright (C) 2011 Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 AppearTV AS
Copyright (C) 2011 Antti Palosaari <crope@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2011 Antonio Ospite <ospite@studenti.unina.it>
Copyright (C) 2011 Anssi Hannula <anssi.hannula@?ki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2011 Andy Walls <awalls@md.metrocast.net>
Copyright (C) 2011 Andre Heider <a.heider@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Alexander Stein alexander.stein@systec-electronic.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Alexander Stein <alexander.stein@systec-electronic.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 Aeroflex Gaisler AB, Daniel Hellstrom
Copyright (C) 2011 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Robert Richter
Copyright (C) 2011 Advanced Micro Devices,
Copyright (C) 2011 ARM Ltd. Written by Will Deacon <will.deacon@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 ARM Ltd. Author: Catalin Marinas <catalin.marinas@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 ARM Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2011 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2011 - NVIDIA, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 - 2021 Xilinx Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011 - 2016, Yann Collet.
Copyright (C) 2011 - 2014 Xilinx
Copyright (C) 2011 - 2014 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 - 2014 Cisco Systems Inc
Copyright (C) 2011 - 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Sylwester
Nawrocki <s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 - 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2011 - 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2011 - 2012 Michal Simek <monstr@monstr.eu>
Copyright (C) 2011 - 2012 Johan Hovold <jhovold@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2011 - 2012 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2011 - 2012 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2011	Don Zickus Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010: YOSHIFUJI Hideaki <yoshfuji@linux-ipv6.org>
Copyright (C) 2010. Ilya Yanok, Emcraft Systems, yanok@emcraft.com
Copyright (C) 2010-2021 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2010-2021 Johan Hovold (johan@kernel.org)
Copyright (C) 2010-2021 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil-cisco@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2010-2019 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2010-2018 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010-2017 Mathieu Desnoyers <mathieu.desnoyers@efficios.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2017 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010-2017 Digital Devices GmbH Ralph Metzler
<rmetzler@digitaldevices.de>
Copyright (C) 2010-2017 Digital Devices GmbH Ralph Metzler <rjkm@metzlerbros.de>
Marcus Metzler <mocm@metzlerbros.de>
Copyright (C) 2010-2017 Digital Devices GmbH Marcus Metzler
<mocm@metzlerbros.de> Ralph Metzler <rjkm@metzlerbros.de>
Copyright (C) 2010-2017 Digital Devices GmbH
Copyright (C) 2010-2017 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2010-2016 Oracle Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010-2015, Shanghai Sileadinc Co.Ltd
Copyright (C) 2010-2015 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2015 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010-2015 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2010-2014 Xilinx, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010-2014 STMicroelectronics Limited
Copyright (C) 2010-2014 ST Microelectronics Pratyush Anand
<pratyush.anand@gmail.com> Mohit Kumar <mohit.kumar.dhaka@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2014 Michael Krufky (mkrufky@linuxtv.org)
Copyright (C) 2010-2014 Michael Krufky <mkrufky@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2010-2014 Intel Corp Author: Vinod Koul <vinod.koul@intel.com>
Author: Harsha Priya <priya.harsha@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2014 Intel Corp Author: Vinod Koul <vinod.koul@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2013 Texas Instruments, Inc. Rajendra Nayak <rnayak@ti.com>
Santosh Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2010-2013 ST-Ericsson AB Mian Yousaf Kaukab
<mian.yousaf.kaukab@stericsson.com> Avinash Kumar <avinash.kumar@stericsson.com>
Thirupathi Chippakurthy <thirupathi.chippakurthy@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2013 Nicholas A. Bellinger <nab@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2010-2013 Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (C) 2010-2013 LaCie
Copyright (C) 2010-2013 Johan Hovold (jhovold@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2010-2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc
Copyright (C) 2010-2013 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2010-2013 Digital Devices GmbH
Copyright (C) 2010-2013 Bluecherry, LLC <https://www.bluecherrydvr.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2012, NVIDIA CORPORATION. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 esd electronic system design gmbh, Matthias Fuchs
<socketcan@esd.eu>
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 by Dell Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 by Bruno Prémont <bonbons@linux-vserver.org>
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Texas Instruments, Inc. Paul Walmsley Benoît Cousson
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Nishanth Menon Kevin Hilman Thara Gopinath
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Stephane Grosjean <s.grosjean@peak-system.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Sylwester Nawrocki
<s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Hauke Mehrtens <hauke@hauke-m.de>
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Bojan Smojver <bojan@rexursive.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Andreas Heider <andreas@meetr.de>
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Author: Joerg Roedel
<jroedel@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 ADVANSEE - http://www.advansee.com/
Copyright (C) 2010-2012 - NVIDIA, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011, Tobias Klauser <tklauser@distanz.ch>
Copyright (C) 2010-2011, Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Authors: Yong Zhi Mythri pk <mythripk@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 ST-Ericsson
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 ST Microelectronics
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Pixcir, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Nokia Corporation. Eduardo Valentin Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Nicholas A. Bellinger <nab@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Neil Brown
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Mika Westerberg
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Michael Hennerich, Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Lund Engineering Contact: Gil Lund <gwlund@lundeng.com>
Author: Martin Hostettler <martin@neutronstar.dyndns.org>
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Julius Baxter <julius.baxter@orsoc.se>
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Jonas Bonn <jonas@southpole.se> et al.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Jonas Bonn <jonas@southpole.se>
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Jean-Francois Moine (http://moinejf.free.fr)
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Jaiganesh Narayanan <jnarayanan@atheros.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Intel Corporation Author: Yin Kangkai
(kangkai.yin@intel.com)
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Guennadi Liakhovetski
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Digital Devices GmbH
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Christopher Yeoh <cyeoh@au1.ibm.com>, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Canonical Ltd <jeremy.kerr@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2011 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010-17 Digital Devices GmbH
Copyright (C) 2010-11 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2010-11 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2010--2012 Nokia Corporation Contact: Sakari Ailus
<sakari.ailus@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010,2015 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2010,2013, NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010,2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010,2012 - NVIDIA, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010,2011 NetUP Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010,2011 Igor M. Liplianin <liplianin@netup.ru>
Copyright (C) 2010,2011 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010,2011 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010, Tobias Klauser <tklauser@distanz.ch>
Copyright (C) 2010, ST-Ericsson SA
Copyright (C) 2010, Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010, Philippe De Muyter <phdm@macqel.be>
Copyright (C) 2010, Paul Cercueil <paul@crapouillou.net>
Copyright (C) 2010, Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010, Novell, Inc. Author : K. Y. Srinivasan
<ksrinivasan@novell.com>
Copyright (C) 2010, Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2010, Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright (C) 2010, Intel Corp. Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010, Intel Corp. Authors: Maxim Locktyukhin
<maxim.locktyukhin@intel.com> Ronen Zohar <ronen.zohar@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010, Intel Corp. Author: Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010, Guennadi Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2010, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 2010, Frederic Weisbecker <fweisbec@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010, Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2010, Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Victor Gallardo
(vgallardo@apm.com)
Copyright (C) 2010, ARM Ltd., Will Deacon <will.deacon@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2010, 2016 Intel Corp. Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010, 2013 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010, 2013 Intel Corporation Author: Zhao Yakui
<yakui.zhao@intel.com> Lv Zheng <lv.zheng@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010, 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010, 2012 Bastien Nocera <hadess@hadess.net>
Copyright (C) 2010, 2011, 2012, Lemote, Inc. Author: Chen Huacai,
chenhc@lemote.com
Copyright (C) 2010, 2011 Roland Stigge <stigge@antcom.de>
Copyright (C) 2010, 2011 Ericsson AB.
Copyright (C) 2010, 2011 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2010, 2011 Anssi Hannula <anssi.hannula@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2010 the Speakup Team
Copyright (C) 2010 secunet Security Networks AG
Copyright (C) 2010 by Tom Zanussi <tzanussi@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 by Ondrej Zary
Copyright (C) 2010 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (C) 2010 by Jarod Wilson <jarod@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 by Frederic Weisbecker <fweisbec@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 by David Härdeman <david@hardeman.nu>
Copyright (C) 2010 Zilogic Systems <code@zilogic.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Yong Shen <yong.shen@linaro.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Yoichi Yuasa <yuasa@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix e.K. <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 WindRiver Systems, Inc. authors: Andreas Kies
<andreas.kies@windriver.com> Vlad Lungu <vlad.lungu@windriver.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Willow Garage <http://www.willowgarage.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Will Deacon, ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2010 Wang Lei. All Rights Reserved. Written by Wang Lei
(wang840925@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2010 Waldemar Brodkorb <wbx@openadk.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Vivek Goyal <vgoyal@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Urs Fleisch <urs.fleisch@sensirion.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Tony Prisk
Copyright (C) 2010 Tomoki Sekiyama (tomoki.sekiyama@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2010 Tomohiro Kusumi <kusumi.tomohiro@jp.fujitsu.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Tom Zanussi <tzanussi@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Tobias Klauser <tklauser@distanz.ch>
Copyright (C) 2010 Thomas Langer, <thomas.langer@lantiq.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Thomas Langer <thomas.langer@lantiq.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Thomas Chou <thomas@wytron.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments, Inc. Written by Santosh Shilimkar
<santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments, Inc. Thara Gopinath <thara@ti.com> Benoît
Cousson
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments, Inc. Thara Gopinath <thara@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments, Inc. Author: Santosh Shilimkar
<santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments, Inc. - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments, Inc. (Teerth Reddy et al.)
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments, Inc
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated. Thara Gopinath
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated Author: Erik Gilling
<konkers@android.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Tarun
Kanti DebBarma <tarun.kanti@ti.com> Thara Gopinath <thara@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ Sumit
Semwal
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Senthilvadivu Guruswamy Sumit Semwal
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/ G,
Manjunath Kondaiah <manjugk@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com Author:
Hema HK <hemahk@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Inc. Author: Erik Gilling
<konkers@android.com> Tomi Valkeinen <tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Inc
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Author: Hemanth V <hemanthv@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Author: Felipe Balbi <balbi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments Author: Archit Taneja <archit@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2010 Tejun Heo <tj@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Tanguy Bouzeloc <tanguy.bouzeloc@efixo.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Takashi Yoshii
Copyright (C) 2010 Steven King <sfking@fdwdc.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Stephane Duverger
Copyright (C) 2010 Steffen Klassert <steffen.klassert@secunet.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Stefani Seibold <stefani@seibold.net>
Copyright (C) 2010 Stefan Ringel <stefan.ringel@arcor.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 Slimlogic Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2010 Simon Guinot <sguinot@lacie.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Sheng-Yuan Huang (Nuvoton) (PS00)
Copyright (C) 2010 SecretLab Grant Likely <grant@secretlab.ca> John Bonesio
<bones@secretlab.ca>
Copyright (C) 2010 Secret Lab Technologies, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2010 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2010 Samsung Electronics MyungJoo Ham <myungjoo.ham@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Minkyu Kang
<mk7.kang@samsung.com> Author: Joonyoung Shim <jy0922.shim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Joonyoung Shim
<jy0922.shim@samsung.com> Author: Donghwa Lee <dh09.lee@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Joonyoung Shim
<jy0922.shim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Author: HeungJun Kim
<riverful.kim@samsung.com> Author: Joonyoung Shim <jy0922.shim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd
Copyright (C) 2010 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2010 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd Author: Sylwester Nawrocki,
s.nawrocki@samsung.com
Copyright (C) 2010 Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. Jaswinder Singh
<jassi.brar@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Samsung Electronics Author: Michal Nazarewicz
<mina86@mina86.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Samsung Electronics
Copyright (C) 2010 Samsung Electrnoics MyungJoo Ham <myungjoo.ham@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Samo Pogacnik
Copyright (C) 2010 Sameer Ahmad, Lantiq GmbH
Copyright (C) 2010 SUSE Products GmbH/Novell Author: Thomas Renninger
<trenn@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 SUSE Linux Products GmbH. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010 SUSE Linux Products GmbH Author: Thomas Renninger
<trenn@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 SUSE Linux Products GmbH
Copyright (C) 2010 ST-Ericsson SA
Copyright (C) 2010 ST-Ericsson AB Mian Yousaf Kaukab
<mian.yousaf.kaukab@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 ST Microelectronics. Deepak Sikri<deepak.sikri@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 ST Microelectronics Viresh Kumar <vireshk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 ST Microelectronics Shiraz
Hashim<shiraz.linux.kernel@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 ST Microelectronics Rajeev Kumar<rajeev-dlh.kumar@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 ST Microelectronics Rajeev Kumar
<rajeevkumar.linux@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 ST Microelectronics Bhupesh Sharma <bhupesh.sharma@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 ST Micro Electronics, Deepak Sikri <deepak.sikri@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Ryan Mallon
Copyright (C) 2010 Rusty Russell
Copyright (C) 2010 Roman Yeryomin <roman@advem.lv>
Copyright (C) 2010 Ricardo Martins <rasm@fe.up.pt>
Copyright (C) 2010 Renesas Solutions Corp. Yusuke Goda
<yusuke.goda.sx@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Renesas Solutions Corp. Tony SIM
<chinyeow.sim.xt@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc., Peter Zijlstra
Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Red Hat Inc, Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Rafael J. Wysocki, Novell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Rabin Vincent <rabin@rab.in>
Copyright (C) 2010 ROCKCHIP, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 R.M. Thomas rmthomas--a.t--sciolus.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Politecnico di Torino, Italy TORSEC group --
https://security.polito.it
Copyright (C) 2010 Pierre Ducroquet
Copyright (C) 2010 Philippe Rétornaz
Copyright (C) 2010 PetaLogix
Copyright (C) 2010 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2010 Patrick Boettcher, Kernel Labs Inc. PO Box 745, St James, NY
11780
Copyright (C) 2010 Parallels, Inc., Cyrill Gorcunov <gorcunov@openvz.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Paolo Valente <paolo.valente@unimore.it> Arianna Avanzini
<avanzini@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010 One Laptop per Child Foundation.
Copyright (C) 2010 One Laptop per Child Author: Harald Welte
<HaraldWelte@viatech.com> All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010 One Laptop per Child
Copyright (C) 2010 OMICRON electronics GmbH
Copyright (C) 2010 OKI SEMICONDUCTOR Co., LTD.
Copyright (C) 2010 Nuno Goncalves <nunojpg@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Novell. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010 Nouveau Project
Copyright (C) 2010 Nokia Corporation. Eduardo Valentin
Copyright (C) 2010 Nokia Corporation. Author: Mika Westerberg
Copyright (C) 2010 Nokia Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies).
Copyright (C) 2010 Nokia Corporation Tony Lindgren <tony@atomide.com> Santosh
Shilimkar <santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Nokia Corporation Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2010 Nokia Corporation Contact: Yauheni Kaliuta
<yauheni.kaliuta@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Nokia Corporation Benoît Cousson Paul Walmsley Rajendra Nayak
<rnayak@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Nokia Corporation Benoît Cousson Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2010 Nokia Corporation Author: Matti J. Aaltonen
<matti.j.aaltonen@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Nokia Corporation Author: Imre Deak <imre.deak@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Nokia Corporation (Hiroshi Doyu)
Copyright (C) 2010 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu
Copyright (C) 2010 Nicholas A. Bellinger <nab@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 NetUP Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Nathan Fontenot
Copyright (C) 2010 NXP Semiconductors
Copyright (C) 2010 NVIDIA Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010 NISHIMOTO Hiroki
Copyright (C) 2010 NEC corporation
Copyright (C) 2010 Mistral Solutions Pvt Ltd. Author: Shahina Shaik
<shahina.s@mistralsolutions.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Mike Christie
Copyright (C) 2010 Miguel Gaio <miguel.gaio@efixo.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Michał Mirosław <mirq-linux@rere.qmqm.pl>
Copyright (C) 2010 Michal Simek <monstr@monstr.eu>
Copyright (C) 2010 Michael Neuling IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010 Michael Krufky <mkrufky@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Michael Hennerich, Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Maxim Levitsky <maximlevitsky@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Maurus Cuelenaere
Copyright (C) 2010 Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (C) 2010 Matthias Fuchs <matthias.fuchs@esd.eu>, esd gmbh
Copyright (C) 2010 Matt Fleming <matt@console-pimps.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Matt Fleming
Copyright (C) 2010 Marvell International Ltd. Zhangfei Gao
<zhangfei.gao@marvell.com> Kevin Wang <dwang4@marvell.com> Mingwei Wang
<mwwang@marvell.com> Philip Rakity <prakity@marvell.com> Mark Brown
<markb@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Marvell International Ltd. Zhangfei Gao
<zhangfei.gao@marvell.com> Kevin Wang <dwang4@marvell.com> Jun Nie
<njun@marvell.com> Qiming Wu <wuqm@marvell.com> Philip Rakity
<prakity@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Marvell International Ltd. Sachin Sanap <ssanap@marvell.com>
Zhangfei Gao <zgao6@marvell.com> Philip Rakity <prakity@marvell.com> Mark Brown
<markb@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Markus Plessing <plessing@ems-wuensche.com> Oliver Hartkopp
<socketcan@hartkopp.net>
Copyright (C) 2010 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com> Pavel Revak
<palo@bielyvlk.sk>
Copyright (C) 2010 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Marco Stornelli <marco.stornelli@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Marcin Kościelnicki
Copyright (C) 2010 Marcelo Roberto Jimenez <mroberto@cpti.cetuc.puc-rio.br>
Copyright (C) 2010 Malcolm Priestley (tvboxspy@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2010 Malcolm Priestley
Copyright (C) 2010 Magnus Damm
Copyright (C) 2010 MIPS Technologies, Inc. Author: Deng-Cheng Zhu
Copyright (C) 2010 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Loongson Inc. & Lemote Inc. & Institute of Computing
Technology Author: Xiang Gao, gaoxiang@ict.ac.cn Huacai Chen, chenhc@lemote.com
Xiaofu Meng, Shuangshuang Zhang
Copyright (C) 2010 Linus Walleij for ST-Ericsson
Copyright (C) 2010 Linus Walleij
Copyright (C) 2010 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 2010 Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 Lantiq Deutschland
Copyright (C) 2010 LaCie
Copyright (C) 2010 LSI Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2010 LAPIS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD.
Copyright (C) 2010 Kent Overstreet <kent.overstreet@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Kan-Ru Chen <kanru@0xlab.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Juergen Beisert, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2010 Juan Jesús García de Soria <skandalfo@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Joonas Lahtinen <joonas.lahtinen@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 John Crispin <blogic@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Johan Hovold (jhovold@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2010 Johan Hovold <jhovold@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Jean-François Moine <http://moinejf.free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2010 Jean-Francois Moine (http://moinejf.free.fr)
Copyright (C) 2010 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 Jason Wessel <jason.wessel@windriver.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Jason Wessel
Copyright (C) 2010 Jarod Wilson <jarod@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Janusz Krzysztofik <jkrzyszt@tis.icnet.pl>
Copyright (C) 2010 Janusz Krzysztofik
Copyright (C) 2010 James Courtier-Dutton (James@superbug.co.uk)
Copyright (C) 2010 Ivo van Doorn <IvDoorn@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Intel Corporation, Lin Ming <ming.m.lin@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Intel Corporation, David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Intel Corporation <tony.luck@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Intel Corp Author: Vinod Koul <vinod.koul@intel.com> Author:
Harsha Priya <priya.harsha@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Indesign, LLC
Copyright (C) 2010 Igor M. Liplianin <liplianin@netup.ru>
Copyright (C) 2010 Ian Munsie, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2010 IBM Corporation Author: David Safford <safford@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010 Hitoshi Mitake <mitake@dcl.info.waseda.ac.jp>
Copyright (C) 2010 Henrik Rydberg <rydberg@euromail.se>
Copyright (C) 2010 Hector Martin <hector@marcansoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2010 Gyungoh Yoo <jack.yoo@maxim-ic.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Guennadi Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 Gražvydas Ignotas <notasas@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Google, Inc. Rewritten by David Rientjes
Copyright (C) 2010 Google, Inc. Iliyan Malchev <malchev@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Google, Inc. Author: Erik Gilling <konkers@android.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Google, Inc. Author: Colin Cross <ccross@android.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Google Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Giel van Schijndel <me@mortis.eu>
Copyright (C) 2010 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Frederic Weisbecker <fweisbec@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Frederic Pecourt <opengemini@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2010 Francisco Jerez. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010 Fitipower Integrated Technology Inc
Copyright (C) 2010 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Faraday Technology Corp.
Copyright (C) 2010 Fabien Chouteau <fabien.chouteau@barco.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 FUJITSU LIMITED
Copyright (C) 2010 Extreme Engineering Solutions.
Copyright (C) 2010 Ericsson AB.
Copyright (C) 2010 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2010 Elan Digital Systems Limited
Copyright (C) 2010 Ed Spiridonov <edo.rus@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 EF Johnson Technologies
Copyright (C) 2010 Dmitry Eremin-Solenikov
Copyright (C) 2010 Digital Devices GmbH
Copyright (C) 2010 Digital Design Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010 Devin Heitmueller <dheitmueller@kernellabs.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Dell Inc. by Narendra K <Narendra_K@dell.com>, Jordan
Hargrave <Jordan_Hargrave@dell.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Dell Inc. Louis Davis <louis_davis@dell.com> Jim Dailey
<jim_dailey@dell.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2010 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2010 Dan Williams <dcbw@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 DSLab, Lanzhou University, China Author: Wu Zhangjin
<wuzhangjin@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 DENX Software Engineering GmbH Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 DENX Software Engineering
Copyright (C) 2010 Critical Link LLC - https://www.criticallink.com
Copyright (C) 2010 Compulab Ltd. Author: Mike Rapoport <mike@compulab.co.il>
Copyright (C) 2010 CompuLab, Ltd. Konstantin Sinyuk <kostyas@compulab.co.il>
Copyright (C) 2010 CompuLab Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2010 Cisco Systems Inc. <dediao@cisco.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Cavium Networks, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 Canonical, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2010 Canonical Ltd. Author: Bryan Wu <bryan.wu@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Cambridge Silicon Radio Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2010 Bruno Randolf <br1@einfach.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Broadcom Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2010 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2010 Brian King IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010 Bernhard Loos <bernhardloos@googlemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (C) 2010 Barnes & Noble, Inc. Author: Pieter
Truter<ptruter@intrinsyc.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Atmel Corporation Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Antti Seppälä <a.seppala@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Antti Palosaari <crope@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2010 Andy Walls <awalls@md.metrocast.net>
Copyright (C) 2010 Andres Salomon <dilinger@queued.net>
Copyright (C) 2010 Andreas Mohr <andi@lisas.de>
Copyright (C) 2010 Ambient Corporation
Copyright (C) 2010 Alexey Charkov <alchark@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Alexander Graf (agraf@suse.de)
Copyright (C) 2010 Alessandro Rubini
Copyright (C) 2010 Alberto Panizzo <maramaopercheseimorto@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 Alan Stern <stern@rowland.harvard.edu>
Copyright (C) 2010 Alan Stern
Copyright (C) 2010 Abylay Ospan <aospan@netup.ru>
Copyright (C) 2010 ARM Ltd., Will Deacon <will.deacon@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 ARM Ltd. Written by Catalin Marinas <catalin.marinas@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 ALPHAPROJECT Co.,Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2010 - NVIDIA, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 - Maxim Levitsky
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2016 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2015 Len Brown <len.brown@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2014 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2013 Texas Instruments Incorporated. http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2013 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2013 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Sylwester Nawrocki
<s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2013 Johan Hovold (jhovold@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Sylwester Nawrocki
<s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2012 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2012 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2012 LAPIS SEMICONDUCTOR CO., LTD.
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2011 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2010 - 2011 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Contact: Sylwester
Nawrocki, <s.nawrocki@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 "Wu Zhangjin" <wuzhanjing@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010 "Wu Zhangjin" <wuzhangjin@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2010	Johan Hovold (jhovold@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2010	Andy Walls <awalls@md.metrocast.net>
Copyright (C) 2009/2010 Stefani Seibold <stefani@seibold.net>
Copyright (C) 2009. SUSE Linux Products GmbH. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009-2021 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de> Ingo Molnar
<mingo@redhat.com> Randolph Chung <tausq@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2009-2016 John Crispin <blogic@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2009-2016 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2009-2016 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2009-2016 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009-2016 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2015 Lei Chuanhua <chuanhua.lei@lantiq.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2015 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009-2015 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2015 Anton Blanchard, IBM
Copyright (C) 2009-2014 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2014 Texas Instruments Incorporated. Nishanth Menon Romit
Dasgupta Kevin Hilman
Copyright (C) 2009-2013 VMware, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009-2013 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2013 Texas Instruments Inc. Nishant Kamat <nskamat@ti.com>
Balaji T K <balajitk@ti.com> Graeme Gregory <gg@slimlogic.co.uk> Girish S
Ghongdemath <girishsg@ti.com> Ambresh K <ambresh@ti.com> Oleksandr Kozaruk
<oleksandr.kozaruk@ti.com
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 TurboSight.com
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Texas Instruments - Santosh Shilimkar
<santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Siemens AG
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 ST Microelectronics Viresh Kumar <vireshk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 ST Microelectronics Rajeev Kumar <rajeev-
dlh.kumar@st.com> Viresh Kumar <vireshk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Oracle Corp. All rights reserved. Author: Dan
Magenheimer
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Konstantin Dimitrov <kosio.dimitrov@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Jean-Francois Moine <http://moinejf.free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Jason Baron <jbaron@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 Cavium, Inc
Copyright (C) 2009-2012 CERN (www.cern.ch) Author: Nicolas Serafini, Author:
Samuel Iglesias Gonsalvez <siglesias@igalia.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2011, Frederic Weisbecker <fweisbec@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 ST-Ericsson AB
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Nokia Corporation Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Motorola, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Jean-François Moine <http://moinejf.free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Jean-Francois Moine http://moinejf.free.fr
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Freescale Semiconductor. Author: Jack Lan
<jack.lan@freescale.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2011 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010, Philippe De Muyter <phdm@macqel.be>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010, Lars-Peter Clausen <lars@metafoo.de>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Tom Zanussi <tzanussi@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated. Nishanth Menon Romit
Dasgupta Kevin Hilman
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Nishanth Menon Kevin Hilman
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Texas Instruments Author: Pavan Savoy
<pavan_savoy@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Sven Anders <anders@anduras.de>, ANDURAS AG.
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Samsung Electronics MyungJoo Ham
<myungjoo.ham@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Samsung Electronics Kyungmin Park
<kyungmin.park@samsung.com> Marek Szyprowski <m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Samsung Electrnoics MyungJoo Ham
<myungjoo.ham@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Samsung Electrnoics Kyungmin Park
<kyungmin.park@samsung.com> Marek Szyprowski <m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 PetaLogix
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 One Laptop per Child
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Nokia Corporation Paul Walmsley, Kevin Hilman
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 NXP Semiconductors
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Márton Németh <nm127@freemail.hu>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Motorola, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Marvell International Ltd. Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Magnus Damm
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Laurent Pinchart (laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com)
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Jozsef Kadlecsik (kadlec@netfilter.org)
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Jozsef Kadlecsik (kadlec@blackhole.kfki.hu)
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Jean-François Moine <http://moinejf.free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Gustavo F. Padovan <gustavo@padovan.org>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Guennadi Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Becky Bruce
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Frederic Weisbecker <fweisbec@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Douglas Landgraf <dougsland@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Alexander Gordeev <lasaine@lvk.cs.msu.su>
Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Author: Joerg Roedel
<jroedel@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2009-11 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2009-11 Texas Instruments - Santosh Shilimkar
<santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2009--2010 Nokia Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2009,2012,2013 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2009,2012 ST Microelectronics Rajeev Kumar<rajeev-
dlh.kumar@st.com> Viresh Kumar <vireshk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2009,2012 Andy Walls <awalls@md.metrocast.net>
Copyright (C) 2009,2011 Novell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009,2011 Greg Kroah-Hartman (gregkh@suse.de)
Copyright (C) 2009, Wind River Systems Inc Implemented by
fredrik.markstrom@gmail.com and ivarholmqvist@gmail.com
Copyright (C) 2009, Wind River Systems Inc
Copyright (C) 2009, Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2009, Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2009, Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009, Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2009, Kay Sievers <kay.sievers@vrfy.org>
Copyright (C) 2009, Jiejing Zhang <kzjeef@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, Intel Corp. Author: Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, Hitoshi Mitake <mitake@dcl.info.waseda.ac.jp>
Copyright (C) 2009, Guennadi Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2009, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 2009, Frederic Weisbecker <fweisbec@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, FUJITSU LABORATORIES LTD. Author: Noboru Iwamatsu
<n_iwamatsu@jp.fujitsu.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, Dongsoo Nathaniel Kim <dongsoo45.kim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, Bollore telecom (www.bolloretelecom.eu).
Copyright (C) 2009, Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, 2020-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2009, 2020, 2022-2023 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2016 Intel Corp. Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, 2012 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2009, 2012 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2011 Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@grandegger.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, 2011 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010, 2012, 2014 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010, 2011 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010, 2011 Cypress Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010, 2011 Amit Shah <amit.shah@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010 Red Hat Inc, Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010 DSLab, Lanzhou University, China Author: Wu Zhangjin
<wuzhangjin@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010 Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009, 2010 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2009 secunet Security Networks AG
Copyright (C) 2009 picoChip Designs, Ltd., Jamie Iles
Copyright (C) 2009 picoChip Designs Ltd, Jamie Iles
Copyright (C) 2009 emlix GmbH, Oskar Schirmer <oskar@scara.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 by Tom Zanussi
Copyright (C) 2009 by Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2009 by Samsung Electronics Author: Michal Nazarewicz
(mina86@mina86.com)
Copyright (C) 2009 by Rick L. Vinyard, Jr. <rvinyard@cs.nmsu.edu> 
Copyright (C) 2009 by Bart Hartgers (bart.hartgers+ark3116@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2009 by Abhishek Kulkarni <adkulkar@umail.iu.edu>
Copyright (C) 2009 Zhang Rui <rui.zhang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Zhang Le <r0bertz@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Zhang Le
Copyright (C) 2009 Yinghai Lu
Copyright (C) 2009 Xose Vazquez Perez <xose.vazquez@gmail.com>
http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Xose Vazquez Perez <xose.vazquez@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Wu Zhangjin <wuzhangjin@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Wolfson Microelectronics plc
Copyright (C) 2009 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright (C) 2009 Wolfson Microelectronics
Copyright (C) 2009 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix e.K.
Copyright (C) 2009 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2009 Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@grandegger.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Wing Linux
Copyright (C) 2009 Wind River Systems, written by Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-
mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Wind River Systems, Inc. Tiejun Chen
<tiejun.chen@windriver.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Wind River Systems Written by Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-
mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Wind River Systems Inc Implemented by
fredrik.markstrom@gmail.com and ivarholmqvist@gmail.com
Copyright (C) 2009 Wind River Systems Inc
Copyright (C) 2009 William M. Brack
Copyright (C) 2009 William Hubbs
Copyright (C) 2009 Vivek Goyal <vgoyal@redhat.com> Nauman Rafique
<nauman@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Valentin Sitdikov
Copyright (C) 2009 VIA Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Uwe Kleine-Koenig <u.kleine-koenig@pengutronix.de> for
Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2009 Tom Zanussi <tzanussi@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Thomas Kunze
Copyright (C) 2009 Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Thomas Chou <thomas@wytron.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2009 Theodore Ts'o (tytso@mit.edu)
Copyright (C) 2009 Theodore Kilgore <kilgota@auburn.edu>
Copyright (C) 2009 Theodore Kilgore <kilgota@auburn,edu>
Copyright (C) 2009 Theodore Kilgore
Copyright (C) 2009 The GameCube Linux Team
Copyright (C) 2009 Thadeu Lima de Souza Cascardo <cascardo@holoscopio.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments, Inc. https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments, Inc. Thara Gopinath <thara@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments, Inc
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments Santosh Shilimkar
<santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments Incorporated. https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments Incorporated. Nishanth Menon
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments Incorporated - http://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments Inc Author: Santiago Nunez-Corrales
<santiago.nunez@ridgerun.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments Inc Author: Ajay Kumar Gupta
<ajay.gupta@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments Inc
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments - Santosh Shilimkar
<santosh.shilimkar@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2009 Texas Instrument Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2009 Tejun Heo <tj@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 TMT Services & Supplies (Pty) Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2009 T. Mertelj <tomaz.mertelj@guest.arnes.si>
Copyright (C) 2009 Sunplus Core Technology Co., Ltd. Lennox Wu
<lennox.wu@sunplusct.com> Chen Liqin <liqin.chen@sunplusct.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Sunplus Core Technology Co., Ltd. Chen Liqin
<liqin.chen@sunplusct.com> Lennox Wu <lennox.wu@sunplusct.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Steven Toth <stoth@kernellabs.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Steffen Klassert <steffen.klassert@secunet.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Sitdikov Valentin
Copyright (C) 2009 Simplemachines, Peter Ivanov <ivanovp@gmail.com>, 2007
Copyright (C) 2009 Simon Guinot <sguinot@lacie.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Simon Arlott
Copyright (C) 2009 Siemens AG Written by: Dmitry Eremin-Solenikov
<dmitry.baryshkov@siemens.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Siemens AG
Copyright (C) 2009 Sergey Tyurin <forum.free-x.de> 2012 Jannis Achstetter
<jannis_achstetter@web.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Semihalf
Copyright (C) 2009 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2009 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2009 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Samsung Electronics Minkyu Kang <mk7.kang@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Samsung Electronics Ltd. Jaswinder Singh
<jassi.brar@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Samsung Electronics Kim Kyuwon <q1.kim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Joonyoung Shim
<jy0922.shim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Author: Dongsoo Nathaniel Kim
<dongsoo45.kim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Samsung Electronics Author: Michal Nazarewicz
(mina86@mina86.com)
Copyright (C) 2009 Samsung Electronics Author: Michal Nazarewicz
<mina86@mina86.com> All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009 Samsung Electronics Author: Marek Szyprowski
<m.szyprowski@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 SUSE Linux Products GmbH. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009 SUSE Linux Products GmbH
Copyright (C) 2009 STMicroelectronics Ltd
Copyright (C) 2009 STMicroelectronics
Copyright (C) 2009 ST-Ericsson. Author: Srinidhi Kasagar
<srinidhi.kasagar@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 ST-Ericsson SA
Copyright (C) 2009 ST-Ericsson
Copyright (C) 2009 ST Microelectronics Viresh Kumar <vireshk@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 ST Microelectronics Rajeev Kumar<rajeev-dlh.kumar@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 ST Microelectronics
Copyright (C) 2009 Ryan Mallon <rmallon@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it>
Copyright (C) 2009 Roberto De Ioris <roberto@unbit.it>
Copyright (C) 2009 Renesas Technology Corp.
Copyright (C) 2009 Renesas Solutions, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009 Renesas Solutions Corp. Kuninori Morimoto
<morimoto.kuninori@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Renesas Solutions Corp. Cleanups by Kuninori Morimoto
<morimoto.kuninori@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Matthew Garrett <mjg@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc. Author: Michael S. Tsirkin <mst@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat Inc, Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat Inc, Peter Zijlstra
Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat <mjg@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Red Hat <bskeggs@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Raphael Derosso Pereira <raphaelpereira@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>, Novell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>
Copyright (C) 2009 Rafael Ignacio Zurita <rizurita@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Provigent Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2009 Philippe Vachon <philippe@cowpig.ca>
Copyright (C) 2009 Phil Sutter <n0-1@freewrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Peter Edwards <sweetlilmre@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 PetaLogix. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009 PetaLogix
Copyright (C) 2009 Paulius Zaleckas <paulius.zaleckas@teltonika.lt>
Copyright (C) 2009 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2009 Paul Fox <pgf@laptop.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Palm All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2009 Oxford Semiconductor Ltd
Copyright (C) 2009 Outpost Embedded, LLC
Copyright (C) 2009 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009 Oberthur Technologies by Omar Laazimani, Olivier Condemine
Copyright (C) 2009 Nuvoton PS Team
Copyright (C) 2009 Novell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Novell <trenn@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Nokia Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2009 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies).
Copyright (C) 2009 Nokia Corporation Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2009 Nokia Corporation Contact: Felipe Balbi
<felipe.balbi@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Nokia Corporation Author: Tomi Valkeinen
<tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Nokia Corporation Author: Tomi Valkeinen
<tomi.valkeinen@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Nokia Corporation Author: Kirill A. Shutemov
Copyright (C) 2009 Nokia Corporation Author: Juha Yrjola
<juha.yrjola@solidboot.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2009 Nokia
Copyright (C) 2009 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu <iwamatsu.nobuhiro@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 NetUP Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Net Insight AB
Copyright (C) 2009 Neil Horman <nhorman@tuxdriver.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Nathan Fontenot
Copyright (C) 2009 NXP Semiconductors
Copyright (C) 2009 Motorola, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 MontaVista Software, Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Ming Lei <ming.lei@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Michal Simek <monstr@monstr.eu>
Copyright (C) 2009 Michael Hennerich, Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (C) 2009 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (C) 2009 Mattias Nissler <mattias.nissler@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Matthieu CASTET <castet.matthieu@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2009 Matthias Fuchs <matthias.fuchs@esd-electronics.com>.
Copyright (C) 2009 Matthias Fuchs
Copyright (C) 2009 Matt Fleming <matt@console-pimps.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Matt Fleming
Copyright (C) 2009 Marvell Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2009 Marvell International Ltd. Haojian Zhuang
<haojian.zhuang@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2009 Martin Michlmayr <tbm@cyrius.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Mark Asselstine <asselsm@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Marc Zyngier <maz@misterjones.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Manuel Gebele <forensixs@gmx.de>, Germany
Copyright (C) 2009 Magnus Damm
Copyright (C) 2009 M&N Solutions GmbH, 61191 Rosbach, Germany Holger Schurig
<hs4233@mail.mn-solutions.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Luis Correia <luis.f.correia@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Lemote, Inc. Author: Zhangjin Wu, wuzhangjin@gmail.com
Copyright (C) 2009 Lemote, Inc. Author: Yan hua (yanhua@lemote.com) Author: Wu
Zhangjin (wuzhangjin@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2009 Lemote, Inc. Author: Wu Zhangjin, wuzhangjin@gmail.com
Copyright (C) 2009 Lemote, Inc. Author: Wu Zhangjin <wuzhangjin@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Lemote Inc. Author: Wu zhangjin, wuzhangjin@gmail.com
Copyright (C) 2009 Lemote Inc. Author: Wu Zhangjin, wuzhangjin@gmail.com
Copyright (C) 2009 Lemote Inc. Author: Wu Zhangjin <wuzhanjing@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Lemote Inc. Author: Wu Zhangjin <wuzhangjin@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Lemote Inc. Author: Hu Hongbing <huhb@lemote.com> Wu Zhangjin
<wuzhangjin@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Lemote Inc. & DSLab, Lanzhou University, China
Copyright (C) 2009 Lemote Inc. & DSLab, Lanzhou University Author: Wu Zhangjin
<wuzhangjin@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@skynet.be>
Copyright (C) 2009 LSI Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2009 Kyle Guinn <elyk03@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Krzysztof Helt <krzysztof.h1@wp.pl> Rask Ingemann Lambertsen
and Rene Herman.
Copyright (C) 2009 Kristoffer Glembo <kristoffer@gaisler.com>, Aeroflex Gaisler
AB
Copyright (C) 2009 Konstantin Dimitrov.
Copyright (C) 2009 Konrad Eisele (konrad@gaisler.com) Aeroflex Gaisler AB
Copyright (C) 2009 Ken McGuire <kenm@desertweyr.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Jon Smirl, Digispeaker Author: Jon Smirl <jonsmirl@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Jon Smirl, Digispeaker
Copyright (C) 2009 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Johannes Dickgreber <tanzy@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright (C) 2009 Jiajie Chen (chenjiajie@cse.buaa.edu.cn)
Copyright (C) 2009 Jes Sorensen <Jes.Sorensen@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Jeremy Kerr <jeremy.kerr@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Jean-Francois Moine http://moinejf.free.fr
Copyright (C) 2009 Jean-Francois Moine (http://moinejf.free.fr)
Copyright (C) 2009 Jean-Francois Moine <http://moinejf.free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2009 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Jaya Kumar <jayakumar.lkml@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Jay Fenlason <fenlason@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Jaswinder Singh Rajput
Copyright (C) 2009 Jason Wessel <jason.wessel@windriver.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Jason Baron <jbaron@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Janusz Krzysztofik <jkrzyszt@tis.icnet.pl>
Copyright (C) 2009 Janusz Krzysztofik
Copyright (C) 2009 Janos Laube <janos.dev@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 James Smart, Emulex Corporation
Copyright (C) 2009 Ivo van Doorn <IvDoorn@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Ivan Kokshaysky
Copyright (C) 2009 Ira W. Snyder <iws@ovro.caltech.edu>
Copyright (C) 2009 Intel corporation
Copyright (C) 2009 Intel Corporation. Author: Patrick Ohly
<patrick.ohly@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009 Intel Corporation, Yu Zhao <yu.zhao@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Intel Corporation, <markus.t.metzger@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Intel Corporation Author: Arjan van de Ven
<arjan@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Intel Corp
Copyright (C) 2009 Integrated Device Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2009 Ilya Yanok, Emcraft Systems Ltd, <yanok@emcraft.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Igor M. Liplianin <liplianin@netup.ru>
Copyright (C) 2009 Igor M. Liplianin <liplianin@me.by>
Copyright (C) 2009 IBM Corporation Author: Mimi Zohar <zohar@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2009 IBM
Copyright (C) 2009 Hong H. Pham <hong.pham@windriver.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Paul Moore
<paul@paul-moore.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Nagananda
Chumbalkar <nagananda.chumbalkar@hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
Copyright (C) 2009 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com> and Thomas Kaiser
<thomas@kaiser-linux.li>
Copyright (C) 2009 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Hans Verkuil (hverkuil@xs4all.nl)
Copyright (C) 2009 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2009 HIRANO Takahito <hiranotaka@zng.info>
Copyright (C) 2009 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Google, Inc., Stephane Eranian
Copyright (C) 2009 Giuliano Pochini <pochini@shiny.it>
Copyright (C) 2009 Gertjan van Wingerde <gwingerde@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Gateworks Corporation Authors: Chris Lang, Imre Kaloz
Copyright (C) 2009 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Fujitsu Limited.
Copyright (C) 2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009 Freescale Semiconductor Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Frederic Weisbecker,
Copyright (C) 2009 Frederic Weisbecker <fweisbec@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Francisco Jerez. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Felix Fietkau <nbd@nbd.name>
Copyright (C) 2009 Extreme Engineering Solutions, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Erik Andrén
Copyright (C) 2009 Eric Paris <Red Hat Inc>
Copyright (C) 2009 Embedian Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 Eduardo Moscoso Rubino <moscoso@TopoLogica.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 EF Johnson Technologies
Copyright (C) 2009 Douglas Landgraf <dougsland@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 DiBcom (http://www.dibcom.fr/)
Copyright (C) 2009 Devin Heitmueller <dheitmueller@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Devin Heitmueller <dheitmueller@kernellabs.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 David T.L. Wong <davidtlwong@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2009 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2009 David Gibson, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2009 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2009 Daniel Ribeiro <drwyrm@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Daniel Mack <daniel@caiaq.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Daniel Hellstrom (daniel@gaisler.com),Konrad Eisele
(konrad@gaisler.com) Aeroflex Gaisler AB
Copyright (C) 2009 Daniel Hellstrom (daniel@gaisler.com) Aeroflex Gaisler AB
Copyright (C) 2009 DSLab, Lanzhou University, China Author: Wu Zhangjin
<wuzhangjin@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 DENX Software Engineering GmbH Heiko Schocher <hs@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Crane Cai <crane.cai@amd.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Cory Maccarrone <darkstar6262@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Contec Steuerungstechnik & Automation GmbH Hubert Feurstein
<hubert.feurstein@contec.at>
Copyright (C) 2009 Conexant Systems Inc. Authors <shu.lin@conexant.com>,
<hiep.huynh@conexant.com> Steven Toth <stoth@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Conexant Systems Inc. Authors <shu.lin@conexant.com>,
<hiep.huynh@conexant.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Compulab, Ltd. Mike Rapoport <mike@compulab.co.il> Igor
Grinberg <grinberg@compulab.co.il>
Copyright (C) 2009 Chen Liqin <liqin.chen@sunplusct.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2009 Catalin Marinas
Copyright (C) 2009 Canonical Ltd. <jeremy.kerr@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Brian Johnson <brijohn@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Bob Copeland (me@bobcopeland.com)
Copyright (C) 2009 Bluewater Systems Ltd Author: Ryan Mallon
Copyright (C) 2009 Bluewater Systems Ltd
Copyright (C) 2009 Bill Liu <Bill.Liu@Conexant.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Bernie Thompson <bernie@plugable.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Becky Bruce, Freescale Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2009 Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz <bzolnier@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
Copyright (C) 2009 Bart Zolnierkiewicz <bzolnier@gmail.com>
http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Axel Kollhofer <rain_maker@root-forum.org>
http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Atsushi Nemoto
Copyright (C) 2009 Atmel Corporation, Nicolas Ferre <nicolas.ferre@atmel.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Arnd Bergmann <arnd@arndb.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Arjan van de Ven <arjan@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Antti Palosaari <crope@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2009 Antonio Ospite <ospite@studenti.unina.it>
Copyright (C) 2009 Andy Walls <awalls@md.metrocast.net>
Copyright (C) 2009 Andres Salomon <dilinger@collabora.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2009 Andre Prendel <andre.prendel@gmx.de>  Melvin Rook, Raymond Ng
Copyright (C) 2009 Andre Prendel <andre.prendel@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2009 Anders Blomdell (anders.blomdell@control.lth.se)
Copyright (C) 2009 Alexander Gordeev <lasaine@lvk.cs.msu.su>
Copyright (C) 2009 Alexander Clouter <alex@digriz.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 2009 Alessandro Rubini <rubini@unipv.it> Prafulla WADASKAR
<prafulla.wadaskar@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Albin Tonnerre, Free Electrons <albin.tonnerre@free-
electrons.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Alberto Panizzo <maramaopercheseimorto@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Albert Herranz
Copyright (C) 2009 Alban Browaeys <prahal@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 Alan Stern (stern@rowland.harvard.edu)
Copyright (C) 2009 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Robert Richter
Copyright (C) 2009 Adams.Xu <adams.xu@azwave.com.cn>
Copyright (C) 2009 Abylay Ospan <aospan@netup.ru>
Copyright (C) 2009 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2009 - QLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2019 Broadcom
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2016 STMicroelectronics
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2015 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2014 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2013 Johan Hovold (jhovold@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2012 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2011 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2011 Renesas Solutions Corp. Kuninori Morimoto
<morimoto.kuninori@renesas.com> Paul Mundt <paul.mundt@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2011 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2011 Michal Simek <monstr@monstr.eu>
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2011 David Härdeman <david@hardeman.nu>
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2010 Samsung Electronics Co.Ltd Author: Joonyoung Shim
<jy0922.shim@samsung.com> Author: HeungJun Kim <riverful.kim@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2010 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2010 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2010 NXP Semiconductors
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2010 Ivo van Doorn <IvDoorn@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 - 2010 Bart Van Assche <bvanassche@acm.org>.
Copyright (C) 2009      Karsten Keil <keil@b1-systems.de> 2002  Wolfgang Mües
<wolfgang@iksw-muees.de> 2001     Frode Isaksen <fisaksen@bewan.com> 2001 Kai
Germaschewski       <kai.germaschewski@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2008. Sebastian Siewior, Linutronix
Copyright (C) 2008-2022, VMware, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008-2016 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2008-2014, VMware, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008-2014, 2018-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008-2014 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2008-2014 Red Hat Inc, Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2014 Mathieu Desnoyers <mathieu.desnoyers@efficios.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2014 Mathieu Desnoyers
Copyright (C) 2008-2014 Christoph Lameter
Copyright (C) 2008-2014 Altera Corporation. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2008-2013 Jozsef Kadlecsik <kadlec@netfilter.org>
Copyright (C) 2008-2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008-2012 ST-Ericsson AB
Copyright (C) 2008-2012 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2008-2012 Jean-Francois Moine <http://moinejf.free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2008-2012 Igor M. Liplianin (liplianin@me.by)
Copyright (C) 2008-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2011, Red Hat, Inc., Peter Zijlstra
Copyright (C) 2008-2011, Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 2008-2011, Red Hat Inc, Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Vision Engraving Systems H Hartley Sweeten
<hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Texas Instruments, Inc. Paul Walmsley Rajendra Nayak
<rnayak@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Red Hat, Inc., Peter Zijlstra
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>, Novell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Manuel Lauss
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Jean-François Moine <moinejf@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Jean-François Moine <http://moinejf.free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Timur Tabi
<timur@freescale.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2008-2011 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. 2013-2018 Borislav Petkov
<bp@alien8.de>
Copyright (C) 2008-2010, 2015, 2020 Intel Corporation Authors: Sreedhara DS
(sreedhara.ds@intel.com) Mika Westerberg <mika.westerberg@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2010, 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc. Paul Walmsley Rajendra
Nayak <rnayak@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Thomas Chou <thomas@wytron.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Samsung Electronics Kyungmin Park
<kyungmin.park@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Pavel Cheblakov <P.B.Cheblakov@inp.nsk.su>
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Nokia Corporation Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Nokia Corporation Contact: Felipe Balbi
<felipe.balbi@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Michael Hennerich, Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Kurt Van Dijck, EIA Electronics
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Jonathan Cameron
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2008-2010 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009, Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009, Red Hat Inc., Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 2008-2009, Red Hat Inc, Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009, MontaVista Software, Inc. <source@mvista.com> Author:
Bartosz Golaszewski <bgolaszewski@baylibre.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009, 2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Mingkai Hu
<Mingkai.hu@freescale.com> Sven Schuchmann <schuchmann@schleissheimer.de>
Clemens Gruber <clemens.gruber@pqgruber.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 microdia project <microdia@googlegroups.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 by Jussi Kivilinna <jussi.kivilinna@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@grandegger.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 WIZnet Co.,Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 USI Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Tower Technologies Written by Alessandro Zummo
<a.zummo@towertech.it>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 The GameCube Linux Team
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Texas Instruments Inc
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Tejun Heo <tj@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Samsung Electronics
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 SUSE Linux Products GmbH
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 ST-Ericsson SA
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 ST-Ericsson AB
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Red Hat, Inc., Peter Zijlstra
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Red Hat, Inc. Authors: Izik Eidus Andrea Arcangeli Chris
Wright Hugh Dickins
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Ralph Metzler <rjkm@metzlerbros.de> 
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 PetaLogix
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Pengutronix <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Pavel Machek
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Paulius Zaleckas <paulius.zaleckas@teltonika.lt>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Paulius Zaleckas <paulius.zaleckas@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Nokia Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 MontaVista Software, Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Michal Simek <monstr@monstr.eu>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Marvell Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Manuel Lauss <manuel.lauss@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Ksplice, Inc. Author: Tim Abbott <tabbott@ksplice.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Jon Masters, Red Hat, Inc. <jcm@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Ira W. Snyder <iws@ovro.caltech.edu>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 H Hartley Sweeten <hsweeten@visionengravers.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Frederic Weisbecker <fweisbec@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Eric Piel
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Deep Root Systems, LLC
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 DENX Software Engineering.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Ben. Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org), IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Avionic Design GmbH
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Angelo Arrifano <miknix@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2009 Akamai Technologies, Inc. Portions by Hitoshi Mitake
<h.mitake@gmail.com>.
Copyright (C) 2008-14 Intel Corporation Authors:        Vinod Koul
<vinod.koul@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-14 Intel Corporation Authors:        Vinod Koul
<vinod.koul@intel.com> Harsha Priya <priya.harsha@intel.com> Dharageswari R
<dharageswari.r@intel.com> KP Jeeja <jeeja.kp@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-14 Intel Corp Authors:       Vinod Koul
<vinod.koul@intel.com> Harsha Priya <priya.harsha@intel.com> Dharageswari R
<dharageswari.r@intel.com)
Copyright (C) 2008-14 Intel Corp Authors:       Vinod Koul
<vinod.koul@intel.com> Harsha Priya <priya.harsha@intel.com> Dharageswari R
<dharageswari.r@intel.com> KP Jeeja <jeeja.kp@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-14   Intel Corp Authors:     Vinod Koul
<vinod.koul@intel.com> Harsha Priya <priya.harsha@intel.com> Dharageswari R
<dharageswari.r@intel.com> KP Jeeja <jeeja.kp@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2008--2011 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008,2009,2010 Nokia Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008,2009, Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008,2009 STMicroelectronics
Copyright (C) 2008,2009 Intel Corporation Author: Patrick Ohly
<patrick.ohly@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2008,2009 CompuLab Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2008,2009 Albert Herranz
Copyright (C) 2008, cozybit Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008, Volker Weiss <dev@tintuc.de>
Copyright (C) 2008, VMware, Inc. Author : Alok N Kataria <akataria@vmware.com>
Copyright (C) 2008, VMware, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008, Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2008, Robert Jarzmik <robert.jarzmik@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2008, Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008, Red Hat Inc, Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com> 2011, Red Hat
Inc, Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008, Paulius Zaleckas <paulius.zaleckas@teltonika.lt>
Copyright (C) 2008, Moxa Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008, Jaya Kumar
Copyright (C) 2008, Intel Corp. Author: Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com> Vinodh
Gopal <vinodh.gopal@intel.com> Kahraman Akdemir
Copyright (C) 2008, Intel Corp. Author: Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2008, Guennadi Liakhovetski <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2008, Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2008, Creative Technology Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008, Christian Pellegrin <chripell@evolware.org>
Copyright (C) 2008, 2013 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2008, 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008, 2011 Nokia Corporation Kalle Jokiniemi Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2008, 2011 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2008, 2010 Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2008, 2010 Embecosm Limited
Copyright (C) 2008, 2010 Davide Rizzo <elpa.rizzo@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010 Paxton Smith, Matthew Safar, Rory Filer
linux@sierrawireless.com>
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010 Nitin Gupta 2012, 2013 Minchan Kim
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010 Michael Krufky <mkrufky@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010 Marvell Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 secunet Security Networks AG
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Wind River Systems written by Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-
mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Steffen Klassert <steffen.klassert@secunet.com>
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Renesas Technology Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Renesas Solutions Corp. Kuninori Morimoto
<morimoto.kuninori@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Provigent Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 PMC Sierra Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 PMC Sierra Inc
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu <iwamatsu.nobuhiro@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 NEC Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Michael Krufky <mkrufky@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Matt Fleming
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Intel Corporation Authors: Andi Kleen, Fengguang Wu
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Intel Corporation Author: Andi Kleen
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Elina Pasheva, Matthew Safar, Rory Filer
linux@sierrawireless.com>
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Cavium Networks, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008, 2009 Adam Baker and Theodore Kilgore
Copyright (C) 2008, 2005	Rusty Russell rusty@rustcorp.com.au
Copyright (C) 2008, 2005	IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2008 linwizard.sourceforge.net
Copyright (C) 2008 by Tom Tucker <tom@opengridcomputing.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 by Sascha Hauer <kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 by Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2008 by Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008 by Jaya Kumar
Copyright (C) 2008 by IBM, Corp.
Copyright (C) 2008 by Eric Van Hensbergen <ericvh@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 by Digi International Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 by David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2008 Zhang Rui <rui.zhang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Yoshinori Sato
Copyright (C) 2008 Yoshihiro Shimoda
Copyright (C) 2008 Yoichi Yuasa <yuasa@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 WonderMedia Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2008 Wolfram Sang & Juergen Beisert, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2008 Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@grandegger.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Wind River Systems, written by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2008 Wind River Systems, Inc. written by Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-
mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Wind River Systems, Inc. updated by Tiejun Chen
<tiejun.chen@windriver.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Wind River Systems
Copyright (C) 2008 TurboSight.com, Bob Liu <bob@turbosight.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 TurboSight.com, <bob@turbosight.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Tony Vroon <tony@linx.net>
Copyright (C) 2008 Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Thomas Chou <thomas@wytron.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2008 Thomas Champagne (lafeuil@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2008 Thomas Bogendoerfer <tsbogend@alpha.franken.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Thomas Bogendoerfer
Copyright (C) 2008 Thiemo Seufer
Copyright (C) 2008 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2008 Texas Instruments, Inc. Rajendra Nayak <rnayak@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Texas Instruments Inc Author: Vaibhav Hiremath
<hvaibhav@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Takashi Iwai
Copyright (C) 2008 THE cpufrequtils'S COPYRIGHT HOLDER Claudio Eduardo
<claudioeddy@gmail.com>, 2009.
Copyright (C) 2008 Sylver Bruneau <sylver.bruneau@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Sujith Thomas <sujith.thomas@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 SuSE Linux Products GmbH Thomas Renninger <trenn@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Steven Toth <stoth@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Steven Noonan <steven@uplinklabs.net>
Copyright (C) 2008 Sirius International (Hong Kong) Limited Timothy Lee
<timothy.lee@siriushk.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Simtec Electronics <ben-linux@fluff.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 Silicon Graphics, Inc. (SGI)
Copyright (C) 2008 Shaohua Li <shaohua.li@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Sergey Lapin James Chapman and David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2008 Sensoray Company Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2008 Sebastian Haas <haas@ems-wuensche.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Sebastian Haas
Copyright (C) 2008 Scott Shawcroft (scott.shawcroft@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2008 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Sascha Hauer <s.hauer@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2008 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH by Bernhard Walle
<bernhard.walle@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 STMicroelectronics
Copyright (C) 2008 STMicroelctronics.
Copyright (C) 2008 SPES Societa' Progettazione Elettronica e Software Ltd.
Author: Luca Santini <luca.santini@spesonline.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 SGI Christoph Lameter <cl@linux.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Rusty Russell
Copyright (C) 2008 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 2008 Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it>
Copyright (C) 2008 Robert Jarzmik
Copyright (C) 2008 Riku Voipio <riku.voipio@movial.fi>
Copyright (C) 2008 Riku Voipio
Copyright (C) 2008 Renesas Solutions Corp. Kuninori Morimoto
<morimoto.kuninori@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Renesas Solutions Corp. Author : Yusuke Goda
<goda.yuske@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2008 Renesas Solutions
Copyright (C) 2008 Renaud CERRATO r.cerrato@til-technologies.fr
Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat, Inc., Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat, Inc., Peter Zijlstra
Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat, Inc., James Morris <jmorris <at> redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat, Inc., Eric Paris <eparis@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat, Inc. Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat, Inc. Author: Chris Wright
Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat Inc, Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Red Hat <mjg@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Realtek
Copyright (C) 2008 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2008 Qumranet, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Pylone, Inc. By: Masashi YOKOTA <yokota@pylone.jp>
Copyright (C) 2008 Pierrick Hascoet <pierrick.hascoet@abilis.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Philip Langdale
Copyright (C) 2008 Peter Korsgaard <jacmet@sunsite.dk>
Copyright (C) 2008 Peter Gruber <nokos@gmx.net>
Copyright (C) 2008 Peter Griffin pgriffin@mpc-data.co.uk
Copyright (C) 2008 Peter Griffin <pgriffin@mpc-data.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2008 PetaLogix
Copyright (C) 2008 Per Dalen <per.dalen@cnw.se>
Copyright (C) 2008 Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2008 Pekka Paalanen <pq@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2008 Paul Mundt <lethal@linux-sh.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2008 Paul Hays <Paul.Hays@cattail.ca>
Copyright (C) 2008 Pau Oliva Fora <pof@eslack.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Patrick Boettcher <pb@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 Option International Filip Aben <f.aben@option.com> Denis
Joseph Barrow <d.barow@option.com> Jan Dumon <j.dumon@option.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Openmoko, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Oliver Endriss <o.endriss@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Nuvoton Technology Corp. Wei Song
Copyright (C) 2008 Novell, Inc., Gregory Haskins, Sven Dietrich, and Peter
Morreale, Adaptive Spinlocks simplification:
Copyright (C) 2008 Novell, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Novell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies).
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation Mikko Ylinen <mikko.k.ylinen@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation Kalle Jokiniemi
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation Jouni Hogander
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation Contact: Jarkko Nikula
<jarkko.nikula@bitmer.com> Peter Ujfalusi <peter.ujfalusi@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation Contact: Felipe Balbi
<felipe.balbi@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation Author: Tomi Valkeinen
<tomi.valkeinen@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation Author: Tomi Valkeinen
<tomi.valkeinen@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation Author: David Brownell Modified: Klaus
Schwarzkopf <schwarzkopf@sensortherm.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu <iwamatsu.nobuhiro@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Nir Tzachar <nir.tzachar@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Nicolas Schichan <nschichan@freebox.fr>
Copyright (C) 2008 Nicholas Beck <nbeck@mpc-data.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2008 Mistral Solutions
Copyright (C) 2008 Mike Christie
Copyright (C) 2008 Michal Simek <monstr@monstr.eu>
Copyright (C) 2008 Michal Simek
Copyright (C) 2008 Michael Krufky <mkrufky@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Michael H. Schimek <mschimek@gmx.at>
Copyright (C) 2008 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (C) 2008 Mercury IMC Ltd Written by Mark Jackson <mpfj@mimc.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2008 Maxime Bizon <mbizon@freebox.fr>
Copyright (C) 2008 MaxLinear
Copyright (C) 2008 Matthias Schwarzott <zzam@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Matthew Garrett <mjg@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Matt Fleming <matt@console-pimps.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Marvell Semiconductors, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 Marvell Semiconductors
Copyright (C) 2008 Marvell Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2008 Marvell International Ltd. Eric Miao <eric.miao@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Marvell International Ltd. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2008 Martin Michlmayr <tbm@cyrius.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Markus Plessing <plessing@ems-wuensche.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Mark Nelson, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2008 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Manuel Lauss <mano@roarinelk.homelinux.net>
Copyright (C) 2008 Magnus Damm
Copyright (C) 2008 Maarten Maathuis. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 MIMOMax Wireless Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2008 Lyrtech inc
Copyright (C) 2008 Linutronix GmbH Author: John Ogness
<john.ogness@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Lineo Solutions, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Lemote Technology
Copyright (C) 2008 Lemote Inc. Author: liujl <liujl@lemote.com>, 2008-04-20
Copyright (C) 2008 Lemote Inc. Author: liujl <liujl@lemote.com>, 2008-03-14
Copyright (C) 2008 Lai Jiangshan <laijs@cn.fujitsu.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Kyle McMartin <kyle@mcmartin.ca>
Copyright (C) 2008 Kuninori Morimoto <morimoto.kuninori@renesas.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV.
Copyright (C) 2008 Kim B. Heino
Copyright (C) 2008 Kevin D. Kissell
Copyright (C) 2008 Juergen Beisert (kernel@pengutronix.de)
Copyright (C) 2008 Juergen Beisert
Copyright (C) 2008 Jordan Crouse <jordan@cosmicpenguin.net>
Copyright (C) 2008 John Poet
Copyright (C) 2008 Johannes Weiner <hannes@saeurebad.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Jochen Friedrich <jochen@scram.de> Jon Smirl
<jonsmirl@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Jochen Friedrich <jochen@scram.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Jiri Hladky <hladky _dot_ jiri _at_ gmail _dot_ com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Jim Paris <jim@jtan.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Jim Law - Iris LP All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 Jean-Francois Moine (http://moinejf.free.fr)
Copyright (C) 2008 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Jason Baron <jbaron@redhat.com> By Greg Banks
<gnb@melbourne.sgi.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Janne Grunau (j@jannau.net)
Copyright (C) 2008 Jan Hoogenraad
Copyright (C) 2008 James Smart, Emulex Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008 James Bottomley <James.Bottomley@HansenPartnership.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Jack Ren <jack.ren@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Ira W. Snyder <iws@ovro.caltech.edu>
Copyright (C) 2008 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael A.
Halcrow <mhalcrow@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael A.
Halcrow <mahalcro@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Intel Corporation Authors: Austin Zhang
<austin_zhang@linux.intel.com> Kent Liu <kent.liu@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Intel Corp. Shaohua Li <shaohua.li@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2008 Intel Corp
Copyright (C) 2008 Instituto Nokia de Tecnologia Contact: Eduardo Valentin
<eduardo.valentin@indt.org.br>
Copyright (C) 2008 Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Imre Kaloz <kaloz@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Ilya Yanok, Emcraft Systems
Copyright (C) 2008 Igor M. Liplianin (liplianin@me.by)
Copyright (C) 2008 Igor M. Liplianin <liplianin@me.by> 2010-09-01 Josef Pavlik
<josef@pavlik.it>
Copyright (C) 2008 Igor M. Liplianin <liplianin@me.by>
Copyright (C) 2008 Igor Liplianin September, 9th 2008
Copyright (C) 2008 IBM Corporation, Rusty Russell <rusty@rustcorp.com.au>
Copyright (C) 2008 IBM Corporation Author: Mimi Zohar <zohar@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 IBM Corporation Author(s): Brian King
(brking@linux.vnet.ibm.com),
Copyright (C) 2008 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008 IBM
Copyright (C) 2008 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. David Altobelli
<david.altobelli@hpe.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. David Altobelli
<david.altobelli@hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Bjorn Helgaas
<bjorn.helgaas@hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Henrik Rydberg (rydberg@euromail.se)
Copyright (C) 2008 Henrik Kurelid <henrik@kurelid.se>
Copyright (C) 2008 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Hartmut Hackmann
Copyright (C) 2008 Harrison Metzger <harrisonmetz@gmail.com> Greg Kroah-Hartman
(greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 2008 Harald Welte <laforge@gnufiish.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Hans de Goede <j.w.r.degoede@hhs.nl>
Copyright (C) 2008 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2008 Hannes Reinecke <hare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Guennadi Liakhovetski, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2008 Guennadi Liakhovetski, DENX Software Engineering,
<lg@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Google, Inc. Author: Mike Lockwood <lockwood@android.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Google Inc
Copyright (C) 2008 Glauber de Oliveira Costa, Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Gilead Kutnick <kutnickg@zin-tech.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Gabor Juhos <juhosg at openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved. Dave Liu
<daveliu@freescale.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc. John Rigby <jrigby@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Frank Zago
Copyright (C) 2008 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Fabio Checconi <fabio@gandalf.sssup.it> Paolo Valente
<paolo.valente@unimore.it>
Copyright (C) 2008 Extreme Engineering Solutions, Inc. 
Copyright (C) 2008 Eurotech S.p.A. <info@eurotech.it>
Copyright (C) 2008 Erik Andrén
Copyright (C) 2008 Eric Piel
Copyright (C) 2008 Eric Miao <eric.miao@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Embedded Alley Solutions, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Embedded Alley Solutions, Inc All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 Dmitry Baryshkov
Copyright (C) 2008 Dmitri Vorobiev
Copyright (C) 2008 Devin Heitmueller <dheitmueller@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2008 David Gibson, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008 David Daney
Copyright (C) 2008 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2008 Dave S.r.l. <www.dave.eu>
Copyright (C) 2008 Darius Augulis <darius.augulis at teltonika.lt>
Copyright (C) 2008 Constantin Baranov <const@mimas.ru>
Copyright (C) 2008 Compulab, Ltd. Mike Rapoport <mike@compulab.co.il>
Copyright (C) 2008 Compulab Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2008 Cluster Computing, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (C) 2008 Christian Pellegrin <chripell@evolware.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Christian Lamparter <chunkeey@web.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Christian Kornacker <ckornacker@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Christian Hohnstaedt <chohnstaedt@innominate.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Chipidea - MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 Cezary Jackiewicz cezary.jackiewicz (at) gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Cezary Jackiewicz <cezary.jackiewicz (at) gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Cedric Bregardis <cedric.bregardis@free.fr> and Jean-
Christian Hassler <jhassler@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2008 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2008 Byron Bradley <byron.bbradley@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Bryan Wu <cooloney@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Brandon Philips <brandon@ifup.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Bluewater Systems Ltd Author: Ryan Mallon
Copyright (C) 2008 Ben. Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org), IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2008 Ben Skeggs. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 Ben Backx <ben@bbackx.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Badari Pulavarty, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008 Aurelien Jarno <aurelien@aurel32.net>
Copyright (C) 2008 Atsushi Nemoto <anemo@mba.ocn.ne.jp>
Copyright (C) 2008 Atom Create Engineering Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2008 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008 Atmel
Copyright (C) 2008 Antonio Ospite <ospite@studenti.unina.it>
Copyright (C) 2008 Antoine Jacquet <royale@zerezo.com>
http://royale.zerezo.com/dtv5100/
Copyright (C) 2008 Angelo Castello
Copyright (C) 2008 Andy Walls <awalls@md.metrocast.net>
Copyright (C) 2008 Andres Salomon <dilinger@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Analog Devices, Inc
Copyright (C) 2008 Alexey Starikovskiy <astarikovskiy@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 Alexey Kopytko <alexey@kopytko.ru>
Copyright (C) 2008 Alexey Dobriyan
Copyright (C) 2008 Alex Osborne <ato@meshy.org>
Copyright (C) 2008 Alex Dubov <oakad@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 Aleksandar Radovanovic <biblbroks@sezampro.rs>
Copyright (C) 2008 Alan Stern
Copyright (C) 2008 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 Adam Nielsen <a.nielsen@shikadi.net>
Copyright (C) 2008 Abhishek Sagar <sagar.abhishek@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2008 ARM Limited, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2008 ARM Limited Written by Catalin Marinas
<catalin.marinas@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2008 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2014 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2014 Freescale Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2013 by Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2013 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2012 Tensilica, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2012 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2012 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2012 Marvell Technology Group Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2011 Bart Van Assche <bvanassche@acm.org>.
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2010 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2009 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2009 Novell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2009 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2008 - 2009 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2008 <srinivasa.deevi at conexant dot com>
Copyright (C) 2008	Yoichi Yuasa <yuasa@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2008	Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it>
Copyright (C) 2007-8 Patrick Boettcher <pb@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2007-2022, VMware, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2017 Texas Instruments Incorporated - https://www.ti.com/
Copyright (C) 2007-2017 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2017 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2017 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2016 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2016 Oracle Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007-2016 Mauro Carvalho Chehab
Copyright (C) 2007-2016 Broadcom Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2007-2015, 2018-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007-2015 STMicroelectronics Ltd
Copyright (C) 2007-2015 Imagination Technologies Ltd
Copyright (C) 2007-2015 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2014 by Sensoray Company Inc. Dean Anderson
Copyright (C) 2007-2014 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2014 STMicroelectronics Ltd
Copyright (C) 2007-2014 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2007-2013 VMware, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2013 Texas Instruments, Inc. Author: Vikram Pandita
<vikram.pandita@ti.com> Author: Anand Gadiyar <gadiyar@ti.com> Author: Keshava
Munegowda <keshava_mgowda@ti.com> Author: Roger Quadros <rogerq@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2013 Michal Simek <monstr@monstr.eu>
Copyright (C) 2007-2013 Bruce Chang (Mediatek)
Copyright (C) 2007-2012 VMware, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2012 Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2012 Siemens AG
Copyright (C) 2007-2012 Florian Fainelli <f.fainelli@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2012 Daniel Wang Allwinner Technology Co., Ltd.
<www.allwinnertech.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2011 Texas Instruments, Inc. Rajendra Nayak, Santosh
Shilimkar
Copyright (C) 2007-2011 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2011 STMicroelectronics Ltd
Copyright (C) 2007-2011 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007-2011 Marek Vasut <marek.vasut@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2011 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2011 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2010, 2011-2012 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2007-2010 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2010 Texas Instruments Inc
Copyright (C) 2007-2010 ST-Ericsson Author: Mattias Wallin
<mattias.wallin@stericsson.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2010 SMSC
Copyright (C) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation Paul Walmsley
Copyright (C) 2007-2010 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007-2010 Hannes Reinecke, SUSE Linux Products GmbH. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2010 Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2007-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2010 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2007-2010 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Author: Joerg Roedel
<jroedel@suse.de> Leo Duran <leo.duran@amd.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2010 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Author: Joerg Roedel
<joerg.roedel@amd.com> Leo Duran <leo.duran@amd.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009, OpenWrt.org, Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009, Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009, 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2009, 2011-2012 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2009, 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 The GameCube Linux Team
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Texas Instruments Inc
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Sam Ravnborg <sam@ravnborg.org>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 STMicroelectronics Ltd
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 ST-Ericsson AB
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 PetaLogix
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 NEC Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Motorola, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Michal Simek <monstr@monstr.eu>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Mattia Dongili <malattia@linux.it>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Matthias Schwarzott <zzam@gentoo.de>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Luca Tettamanti <kronos.it@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 John Williams <john.williams@petalogix.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 David T.L. Wong <davidtlwong@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Arjan Opmeer <arjan@opmeer.net>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009 Andres Salomon <dilinger@collabora.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2007-2009	Carlos Corbacho <carlos@strangeworlds.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008, 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008, 2011 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008, 2010 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008, 2010 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 by Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Yoichi Yuasa <yuasa@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Yan Burman
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Wind River Systems, Inc. Author/Maintainer: Jason
Wessel, jason.wessel@windriver.com
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Texas Instruments, Inc. Rajendra Nayak <rnayak@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Sven Anders (anders@anduras.de)
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 SMSC
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Pierre Ossman
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Peter Stokes <linux@dadeos.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Novell
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Nokia Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Michal Simek <monstr@monstr.eu>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Marvell Semiconductor Lennert Buytenhek
<buytenh@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Marvell Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Marvell Internation Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Luis R. Rodriguez <mcgrof@winlab.rutgers.edu>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Krzysztof Hałasa <khc@pm.waw.pl>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Jason Wessel, Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Alex Chiang
<achiang@hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Finn Thain
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Darron Broad March 2007 
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Carlos Corbacho <carlos@strangeworlds.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 BalaBit IT Ltd. Author: Krisztian Kovacs
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Avionic Design Development GmbH
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Arjan Opmeer <arjan@opmeer.net>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Author: Joerg Roedel
<jroedel@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Author: Joerg Roedel
<joerg.roedel@amd.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2008	Carlos Corbacho <cathectic@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-12 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright (C) 2007--2014 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2007,2012 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007,2010 Rene Herman
Copyright (C) 2007,2008,2013 Imagination Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2007,2008,2009 Albert Herranz
Copyright (C) 2007,2008 Thomas Bogendoerfer (tsbogend@alpha.franken.de)
Copyright (C) 2007,2008 SMSC
Copyright (C) 2007,2008 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007,2008 Jonathan Woithe <jwoithe@just42.net>
Copyright (C) 2007,2008 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com> Gabriel Konat,
Sander Leget, Wouter Willems
Copyright (C) 2007,2008 Freescale semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007,2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007,2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007,2008 Freescale Semiconductor Inc. Hongjun Chen <hong-
jun.chen@freescale.com>
Copyright (C) 2007, Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2007, Riku Voipio <riku.voipio@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2007, Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2007, Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007, Nadi Sarrar
Copyright (C) 2007, Intel Corp. Huang Ying <ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2007, Gabor Juhos <juhosg@openwrt.org> Felix Fietkau
<nbd@openwrt.org> Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2007, David Kilroy
Copyright (C) 2007, CenoSYS (www.cenosys.com).
Copyright (C) 2007, Benedikt Spranger <b.spranger@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2007, 2021 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2007, 2017 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2007, 2016 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2007, 2014-2016 Joshua Kinard <kumba@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2007, 2014 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2007, 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2011 Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@grandegger.com>
Copyright (C) 2007, 2010 Texas Instruments, Inc. Rajendra Nayak <rnayak@ti.com>
Lesly A M <x0080970@ti.com> Thara Gopinath <thara@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2007, 2009 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008, Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008, 2010, 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Zhang Wei
<wei.zhang@freescale.com> Lian Minghuan-B31939 <Minghuan.Lian@freescale.com> Liu
Gang <Gang.Liu@freescale.com>
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008, 2010, 2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Zhang Wei
<wei.zhang@freescale.com>
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008, 2009 Siemens AG
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008, 2009 Oracle Corporation Written by: Martin K. Petersen
<martin.petersen@oracle.com>
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Wolfson Microelectronics <linux@wolfsonmicro.com>
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Siemens AG
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Rusty Russell IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Oracle Corporation Written by: Martin K. Petersen
<martin.petersen@oracle.com>
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Michael Krufky <mkrufky@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Magnus Damm
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Karsten Wiese <fzu@wemgehoertderstaat.de>
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Eric Van Hensbergen, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2007, 2008 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2007 kogiidena
Copyright (C) 2007 kavol
Copyright (C) 2007 by Thomas Bogendoerfer
Copyright (C) 2007 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2007 by Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2007 by Latchesar Ionkov <lucho@ionkov.net>
Copyright (C) 2007 by Bjorge Dijkstra <bjd@jooz.net>
Copyright (C) 2007 by Alan Stern
Copyright (C) 2007 Yoshihiro Shimoda
Copyright (C) 2007 Yoichi Yuasa <yuasa@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Yoichi Yuasa <yoichi_yuasa@tripeaks.co.jp>
Copyright (C) 2007 Xilinx, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007 Wolfgang Grandegger <wg@grandegger.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Ville Syrjala <syrjala@sci.fi>
Copyright (C) 2007 USAGI/WIDE Project <http://www.linux-ipv6.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Trent Piepho <xyzzy@speakeasy.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Tomi Orava (tomimo@ncircle.nullnet.fi)
Copyright (C) 2007 Thomas Bogendörfer (tsbogend@alpha.frankende)
Copyright (C) 2007 Thomas Bogendoerfer
Copyright (C) 2007 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2007 Texas Instruments, Inc. Rajendra Nayak <rnayak@ti.com> Lesly
A M <x0080970@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Texas Instruments, Inc. Rajendra Nayak <rnayak@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Texas Instruments, Inc. Lesly A M <x0080970@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Texas Instruments, Inc. Karthik Dasu <karthik-dp@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2007 Tehuti Networks Ltd. All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2007 Sylvain Munaut <tnt@246tNt.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Sven Schnelle <svens@bitebene.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Stephen Hemminger <shemminger@linux-foundation.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Stefan Kopp, Gechingen, Germany
Copyright (C) 2007 Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007 Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Solarflare Communications, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Simon Arlott
Copyright (C) 2007 Semihalf Marian Balakowicz <m8@semihalf.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Semihalf
Copyright (C) 2007 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2007 Sascha Hauer, Marc Kleine-Budde, Pengutronix
<s.hauer@pengutronix.de> Simon Kallweit, intefo AG <simon.kallweit@intefo.ch>
Copyright (C) 2007 Samuel Thibault.
Copyright (C) 2007 Sam Revitch <samr7@cs.washington.edu>
Copyright (C) 2007 Rudolf Marek <r.marek@assembler.cz>
Copyright (C) 2007 Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it>
Copyright (C) 2007 Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@enneenne.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 RightHand Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Richard Betts, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc., Peter Zijlstra
Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc. Author: Michal Schmidt <mschmidt@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2007 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Pierre Ossman
Copyright (C) 2007 Philippe De Muyter <phdm@macqel.be>
Copyright (C) 2007 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2007 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (C) 2007 PA Semi, Inc
Copyright (C) 2007 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007 OpenVZ http://openvz.org, SWsoft Inc
Copyright (C) 2007 OnStor, Inc. Andrew Sharp <andy.sharp@lsi.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Novell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Novell
Copyright (C) 2007 Nokia Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2007 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu
Copyright (C) 2007 Nicolas Thill <nico@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Nicolas Boichat <nicolas@boichat.ch>
Copyright (C) 2007 Nick Piggin
Copyright (C) 2007 Netfilter Core Team <coreteam@netfilter.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 MontaVista Software, Inc., <source@mvista.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 MontaVista Software, Inc Author: Alexandre Rusev
<source@mvista.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Mips Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Mike Isely <isely@pobox.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Michel Ludwig <michel.ludwig@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Michael Krufky (mkrufky@linuxtv.org)
Copyright (C) 2007 Michael Krufky <mkrufky@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (C) 2007 Mattia Dongili <malattia@linux.it>
Copyright (C) 2007 Marvell Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2007 Marvell International Ltd. 2008-02-28: Yong Yao
<yaoyong@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Marvell International Ltd. 2007-08-21: eric miao
<eric.miao@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2007 Marvell Internation Ltd. 2007-08-21: eric miao
<eric.miao@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Marvell Internation Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2007 Markus Brunner, Mark Jonas
Copyright (C) 2007 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Manuel Lauss <mano@roarinelk.homelinux.net>
Copyright (C) 2007 Magnus Damm
Copyright (C) 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2007 MIPS Technologies, Inc. written by Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-
mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2007 MIPS Technologies, Inc. written by Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-
mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 MIPS Technologies, Inc. Chris Dearman (chris@mips.com)
Copyright (C) 2007 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 MEV Ltd. <http://www.mev.co.uk/>
Copyright (C) 2007 LynuxWorks, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Luca Olivetti (luca@ventoso.org)
Copyright (C) 2007 Luca Bigliardi (shammash@artha.org).
Copyright (C) 2007 Lennert Buytenhek <buytenh@wantstofly.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Lemote, Inc. Author: Fuxin Zhang, zhangfx@lemote.com
Copyright (C) 2007 Lemote, Inc. Author : jlliu, liujl@lemote.com
Copyright (C) 2007 Lemote, Inc. Author : jlliu <liujl@lemote.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Lemote, Inc. & Institute of Computing Technology Author:
Fuxin Zhang, zhangfx@lemote.com
Copyright (C) 2007 Lemote Inc. Author: Fuxin Zhang, zhangfx@lemote.com
Copyright (C) 2007 Lemote Inc. Author : jlliu, liujl@lemote.com
Copyright (C) 2007 Lemote Inc. & Institute of Computing Technology Author:
Yanhua, yanh@lemote.com
Copyright (C) 2007 Lemote Inc. & Institute of Computing Technology Author: Fuxin
Zhang, zhangfx@lemote.com
Copyright (C) 2007 Larry Finger <Larry.Finger@lwfinger.net>
Copyright (C) 2007 Kyle McMartin (kyle@parisc-linux.org)
Copyright (C) 2007 Kyle McMartin
Copyright (C) 2007 Krzysztof Helt <krzysztof.h1@wp.pl> Frodo Looijaard
<frodol@dds.nl> and Philip Edelbrock <phil@netroedge.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Krzysztof Helt <krzysztof.h1@wp.pl>
Copyright (C) 2007 Krzysztof Halasa <khc@pm.waw.pl>
Copyright (C) 2007 Kristoffer Ericson <Kristoffer_e1@hotmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Kristoffer Ericson <Kristoffer.Ericson@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Korea Information Security Agency (KISA).
Copyright (C) 2007 Kieran Bingham (MPC-Data Ltd)
Copyright (C) 2007 Julien BLACHE <jb@jblache.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 John Williams <jwilliams@itee.uq.edu.au>
Copyright (C) 2007 John Williams <john.williams@petalogix.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 John Williams
Copyright (C) 2007 John Crispin <john@phrozen.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Jens Axboe <jens.axboe@oracle.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{linux.intel,addtoit}.com)
Copyright (C) 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{addtoit.com,linux.intel.com})
Copyright (C) 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{addtoit,linux.intel}.com)
Copyright (C) 2007 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2007 Jan D. Louw <jd.louw@mweb.co.za>
Copyright (C) 2007 James E.J. Bottomley James.Bottomley@HansenPartnership.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Ivo van Doorn
Copyright (C) 2007 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael A.
Halcrow <mahalcro@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Intel Corp Fenghua Yu <fenghua.yu@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Intel Corp Bibo Mao <bibo.mao@intel.com> Huang Ying
<ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Intel
Copyright (C) 2007 Instituto Nokia de Tecnologia - INdT Author: Felipe Balbi
<felipe.lima@indt.org.br>
Copyright (C) 2007 Instituto Nokia de Tecnologia - INdT Author: Carlos Eduardo
Aguiar <carlos.aguiar@indt.org.br>
Copyright (C) 2007 Instituto Nokia de Tecnologia - INdT
Copyright (C) 2007 Inaky Perez-Gonzalez <inaky@linux.intel.com> Intel
Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007 Ilyes Gouta.
Copyright (C) 2007 Ian Molton
Copyright (C) 2007 Ian Armstrong <ian@iarmst.demon.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2007 IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2007 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007 IBM
Copyright (C) 2007 Hitachi Software Engineering Co., Ltd. Yuichi Nakamura
<ynakam@hitachisoft.jp>
Copyright (C) 2007 Hidetoshi Seto <seto.hidetoshi@jp.fujitsu.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Paul Moore
<paul@paul-moore.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
Copyright (C) 2007 Herbert Valerio Riedel <hvr@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Hans Verkuil (hverkuil@xs4all.nl)
Copyright (C) 2007 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2007 Hans Verkuil
Copyright (C) 2007 Hans J. Koch <hjk@hansjkoch.de>
Copyright (C) 2007 H. Peter Anvin
Copyright (C) 2007 Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2007 Google, Inc. Author: Robert Love <rlove@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Google, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Gary Jennejohn <garyj@denx.de>
Copyright (C) 2007 Gabor Juhos <juhosg at openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. Author: Li Yang
Copyright (C) 2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Finn Thain
Copyright (C) 2007 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 FUJITSU LIMITED
Copyright (C) 2007 FUJITA Tomonori <tomof@acm.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Eurotech S.p.A. <info@eurotech.it>
Copyright (C) 2007 Eurek srl Author: Claudio Lanconelli
<lanconelli.claudio@eptar.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Eugene Konev <ejka@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Eric Dumazet <dada1@cosmosbay.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Eric Biederman <ebiederm@xmission.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Domen Puncer, Telargo, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Dmitry Torokhov
Copyright (C) 2007 Dmitri Vorobiev <dmitri.vorobiev@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Davide Libenzi <davidel@xmailserver.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 David Sterba
Copyright (C) 2007 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2007 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2007 David Gibson, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2007 David Brownell (simplification, cleanup)
Copyright (C) 2007 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2007 Dave Airlie <airlied@linux.ie>
Copyright (C) 2007 Daniel Gimpelevich <daniel@gimpelevich.san-francisco.ca.us>
Copyright (C) 2007 Craig W. Nadler <craig@nadler.us>
Copyright (C) 2007 Craig W. Nadler
Copyright (C) 2007 Conexant Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Christian Pellegrin
Copyright (C) 2007 Chris Smith <chris.smith@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Chase Douglas <chasedouglas@gmail>
Copyright (C) 2007 Casey Schaufler <casey@schaufler-ca.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Carlos Munoz <carlos@kenati.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Carlos Corbacho <carlos@strangeworlds.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2007 Cambridge Silicon Radio Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2007 Calin A. Culianu <calin@ajvar.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Bluewater Systems Ltd Author: Ryan Mallon
Copyright (C) 2007 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2007 Ben. Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org), IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2007 Ben Skeggs. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2007 Author: Eric Biederman <ebiederm@xmision.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Aurelien Jarno <aurelien@aurel32.net>
Copyright (C) 2007 Atsushi Nemoto <anemo@mba.ocn.ne.jp>
Copyright (C) 2007 Atmel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2007 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2007 Arnaud Patard <arnaud.patard@rtp-net.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Antti Palosaari <crope@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2007 Antonino Daplas <adaplas@pol.net>
Copyright (C) 2007 Antonino Daplas <adaplas@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Anti Sullin <anti.sullin@artecdesign.ee>
Copyright (C) 2007 Andrew Victor
Copyright (C) 2007 Andrew Sharp <andy.sharp@lsi.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Andrew Murray <amurray@mpc-data.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2007 Andrew Bird (Sphere Systems Ltd) ajb@spheresystems.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2007 Andres Salomon <dilinger@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 Andrei Tanas <andrei@tanas.ca>
Copyright (C) 2007 Anders Blomdell <anders.blomdell@control.lth.se>
Copyright (C) 2007 Amos Lee <amos_lee@storlinksemi.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Alexey Starikovskiy <astarikovskiy@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2007 Alex Dubov <oakad@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 Alan Stern
Copyright (C) 2007 Alain Degreffe (eczema@ecze.com)
Copyright (C) 2007 Akamai Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2007 AMD (https://www.amd.com) Author: Thomas Dahlmann
Copyright (C) 2007 8D Technologies inc. Raphael Assenat <raph@8d.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2014 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2011 PetaLogix
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2011 Motorola, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2010 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2010 ID7 Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2009 Shaohua Li <shaohua.li@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2009 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2009 Motorola, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2009 Intel Corp
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2009 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2009 Adrian McMenamin
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2008 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2007 - 2008 Alfred E. Heggestad <aeh@db.org>
Copyright (C) 2007 (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2007	Yoichi Yuasa <yuasa@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2006/2007 Kristoffer Ericson <Kristoffer.Ericson@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2006/2007 Kristoffer Ericson <Kristoffer.Ericson@Gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2006. Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006. Bob Jenkins (bob_jenkins@burtleburtle.net)
Copyright (C) 2006-7 Jonathan Corbet <corbet@lwn.net>
Copyright (C) 2006-2020 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006-2019 CRYPTOGAMS by <appro@openssl.org>. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006-2018 Oracle Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006-2017 Oracle Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006-2017 CRYPTOGAMS by <appro@openssl.org>. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006-2016 Oracle Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006-2015 Nicolas Pitre
Copyright (C) 2006-2015 HighPoint Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006-2014 Michael Krufky <mkrufky@linuxtv.org> Taylor Jacob
<rtjacob@earthlink.net> Jean-Francois Thibert <jeanfrancois@sagetv.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2013 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2006-2013 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2006-2012 Robert Gerlach <khnz@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2006-2012 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (C) 2006-2012 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu
Copyright (C) 2006-2011 Hermann Kneissel herkne@gmx.de
Copyright (C) 2006-2011 Analog Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2010, 2012-2013 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006-2010 by Marin Mitov mitov@issp.bas.bg 
Copyright (C) 2006-2010 Texas Instruments Inc
Copyright (C) 2006-2010 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006-2010 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2006-2010 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (C) 2006-2010 PEAK System-Technik GmbH
Copyright (C) 2006-2010 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006-2009, Uri Shkolnik
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 by Openmoko, Inc. Authors: Harald Welte
<laforge@openmoko.org> Andy Green <andy@openmoko.org> Werner Almesberger
<werner@openmoko.org> All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Texas Instruments Inc
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 PetaLogix
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Pengutronix Sascha Hauer, Juergen Beisert, Wolfram Sang
<kernel@pengutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Nokia Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 NEC Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Kristoffer Ericson <kristoffer.ericson@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Alex Chiang
<achiang@hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Henrique de Moraes Holschuh <hmh@hmh.eng.br>
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Freescale Semicondutor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2006-2009 DENX Software Engineering.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008, Uri Shkolnik, Anatoly Greenblat
Copyright (C) 2006-2008, Uri Shkolnik
Copyright (C) 2006-2008, Philipp Reisner <philipp.reisner@linbit.com>.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008, Lars Ellenberg <lars.ellenberg@linbit.com>.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008, LINBIT Information Technologies GmbH.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008, 2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 WIZnet Co.,Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Steven Toth <stoth@hauppauge.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Red Hat, Inc., Markus Armbruster <armbru@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Red Hat GmbH
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 PA Semi, Inc
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Nokia Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Nokia Corporation Tony Lindgren <tony@atomide.com> Jouni
Hogander
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Michael Hennerich, Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Marvell International Ltd. Fengwei Yin
<fengwei.yin@marvell.com> Bin Yang <bin.yang@marvell.com> Eric Miao
<eric.miao@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Marvell International Ltd. Eric Miao
<eric.miao@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Marvell International Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 KeyStream Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Jiri Slaby <jirislaby@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Jarkko Lavinen
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Intel Corporation Author: Ashok Raj
<ashok.raj@intel.com> Author: Shaohua Li <shaohua.li@intel.com> Author: Anil S
Keshavamurthy <anil.s.keshavamurthy@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Intel Corporation Author: Anil S Keshavamurthy
<anil.s.keshavamurthy@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Chelsio Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Barco N.V. 
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Barco N.V.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Artem Bityutskiy
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Analog Devices Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2008 Adrian Hunter
Copyright (C) 2006-2007, Advanced Micro Devices,Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2007, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 by OpenMoko, Inc. Author: Harald Welte
<laforge@openmoko.org>
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Till Harbaum (Till@Harbaum.org)
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Sylvain Munaut <tnt@246tNt.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Riku Voipio
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Renesas Technology Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Renesas Solutions Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Pavel Pisa (ppisa@pikron.com)
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 PA Semi, Inc
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 OpenMoko, Inc. Author: Harald Welte
<laforge@openmoko.org>
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Micronas
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Michael Wu <flamingice@sourmilk.net>
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Johannes Berg
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Jiri Kosina
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Ivan N. Zlatev <contact@i-nz.net>
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Georg Acher
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Freescale Semiconductor
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Daniel Drake <dsd@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Corentin Chary
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Charles Spirakis <bezaur@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Bernhard Kaindl <bk@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Atmel Norway
Copyright (C) 2006-2007 Adam Belay <abelay@novell.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2006 Harald Welte <laforge@netfilter.org>
Copyright (C) 2006-07 Tower Technologies Author: Alessandro Zummo
<a.zummo@towertech.it>
Copyright (C) 2006-07 Tower Technologies
Copyright (C) 2006,2008 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2006,2007 Thomas Bogendoerfer (tsbogend@alpha.franken.de)
Copyright (C) 2006,2007 Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2006,2007 Pete Zaitcev (zaitcev@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2006,2007 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu
Copyright (C) 2006,2007 Genpix Electronics (genpix@genpix-electronics.com)
Copyright (C) 2006,2007 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2006,2007 Eugene Konev <ejka@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2006,2007 Alan Nisota (alannisota@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2006, Timesys Corp., Thomas Gleixner <tglx@timesys.com>
Copyright (C) 2006, Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2006, Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 2006, Ondrej Zajicek <santiago@crfreenet.org>
Copyright (C) 2006, OmniVision
Copyright (C) 2006, NXP Semiconductors, All Rights Reserved Author: Jean-Paul
Saman <jean-paul.saman@nxp.com>
Copyright (C) 2006, Mohan Kumar M, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006, Jaya Kumar This work was sponsored by CIS(M) Sdn Bhd
Copyright (C) 2006, Intel Corp. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006, Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006, 8D Technologies inc.
Copyright (C) 2006, 2019 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2006, 2014, Intel Corp. Author: Kristen Carlson Accardi
<kristen.c.accardi@intel.com> Rafael J. Wysocki <rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2006, 2009 Oliver Endriss <o.endriss@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2006, 2008, 2010 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2006, 2008 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006, 2008 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2009 Rusty Russell, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Paul
Moore <paul@paul-moore.com>
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2008 Kevin Lloyd <klloyd@sierrawireless.com>
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 University of Szeged, Hungary
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Rusty Russell, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Motorola Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Martin Michlmayr <tbm@cyrius.com>
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Ian Armstrong <ian@iarmst.demon.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Eugene Konev <ejka@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Eugene Konev
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Christopher Pascoe <c.pascoe@itee.uq.edu.au>
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Chris Pascoe (c.pascoe@itee.uq.edu.au)
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006, 2007 Akio Idehara
Copyright (C) 2006, 07 by Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2006, 07 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2006, 07 MIPS Technologies, Inc. written by Ralf Baechle
(ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2006 kogiidena
Copyright (C) 2006 jornada Filip Zyzniewsk <Filip.Zyzniewski@tefnet.plX
Copyright (C) 2006 by Thiemo Seufer
Copyright (C) 2006 by SAN People
Copyright (C) 2006 by Russ Cox <rsc@swtch.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 by Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2006 by Paolo Giarrusso
Copyright (C) 2006 by OpenMoko, Inc. Author: Harald Welte <laforge@openmoko.org>
All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006 by Ole Andre Vadla Ravnas (ActiveSync)
Copyright (C) 2006 by Joachim Fritschi, <jfritschi@freenet.de>
Copyright (C) 2006 by Hans Edgington <hans@edgington.nl>
Copyright (C) 2006 bplan GmbH
Copyright (C) 2006 Yuan Mu (Winbond), Rudolf Marek <r.marek@assembler.cz> David
Hubbard <david.c.hubbard@gmail.com> Daniel J Blueman <daniel.blueman@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Yoshinori Sato
Copyright (C) 2006 Yoichi Yuasa <yuasa@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Winbond Electronics Corp. Yuan Mu Rudolf Marek
<r.marek@assembler.cz>
Copyright (C) 2006 Unai Uribarri
Copyright (C) 2006 Trusted Computer Solutions, Inc. <dgoeddel@trustedcs.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Trusted Computer Solutions, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Tower Technologies
Copyright (C) 2006 Torsten Ertbjerg Rasmussen <tr@newtec.dk>
Copyright (C) 2006 Tomasz Michal Lukaszewski
Copyright (C) 2006 Tino Reichardt
Copyright (C) 2006 Timesys Corp., Thomas Gleixner <tglx@timesys.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Til Harbaum (Till@Harbaum.org)
Copyright (C) 2006 Thumtronics Pty Ltd. Developed for Thumtronics by Grey
Innovation Ben Williamson <ben.williamson@greyinnovation.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Thumtronics Pty Ltd. Ben Williamson
<ben.williamson@greyinnovation.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Thomas Tuttle <linux-kernel@ttuttle.net>
Copyright (C) 2006 Thomas Maier <balagi@justmail.de>
Copyright (C) 2006 Thomas Bogendoerfer (tsbogend@alpha.franken.de)
Copyright (C) 2006 Thomas Bogendoerfer
Copyright (C) 2006 Thilo Cestonaro thilo.cestonaro.external@fujitsu-siemens.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Texas Instruments. Original author: Purushotam Kumar
Copyright (C) 2006 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2006 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Texas Instruments, Inc
Copyright (C) 2006 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Takashi YOSHII <takasi-y@ops.dti.ne.jp>
Copyright (C) 2006 Takashi YOSHII
Copyright (C) 2006 TOPTICA Photonics AG., Dragos Carp
Copyright (C) 2006 TOPTICA Photonics AG.
Copyright (C) 2006 Sylvain Munaut <tnt@246tNt.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Storlink, Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006 Steven Toth <stoth@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Steven Toth <stoth@linuxtv.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Sony Computer Entertainment Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk> Vincent
Sanders <vince@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2006 Simon Schulz (ark3116_driver <at> auctionant.de)
Copyright (C) 2006 Silicon Motion Technology Corp. Authors: Ge Wang,
gewang@siliconmotion.com Boyod boyod.yang@siliconmotion.com.cn
Copyright (C) 2006 Silicon Motion Technology Corp. Authors:     Ge Wang,
gewang@siliconmotion.com Boyod boyod.yang@siliconmotion.com.cn
Copyright (C) 2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc., Christoph Lameter
<christoph@lameter.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc., Christoph Lameter
Copyright (C) 2006 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd. Grant Likely
<grant.likely@secretlab.ca>
Copyright (C) 2006 Scott Alfter <salfter@ssai.us>
Copyright (C) 2006 Savin Zlobec
Copyright (C) 2006 Samsung Electronics Kyungmin Park <kyungmin.park@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Sam Ravnborg <sam@ravnborg.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Sam Hocevar <sam@zoy.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 SWAPP Andrea Paterniani <a.paterniani@swapp-eng.it>
Copyright (C) 2006 STMicroelectronics Pvt. Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2006 STMicroelectronics Limited Author: Carl Shaw
<carl.shaw@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 ST Microelectronics Ltd. (denorm support)
Copyright (C) 2006 S1 Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006 Rusty Russell IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 2006 Russ Anderson <rja@sgi.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Rudolf Marek <r.marek@assembler.cz>
Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc., Markus Armbruster <armbru@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Red Hat GmbH
Copyright (C) 2006 Randy Dunlap
Copyright (C) 2006 Randolph Chung <tausq@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2006 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>
Copyright (C) 2006 Qumranet, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Qumranet Avi Kivity <avi@qumranet.com> Yaniv Kamay
<yaniv@qumranet.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Qumranet
Copyright (C) 2006 Polycom, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Philips Semiconductors
Copyright (C) 2006 Philipp Zabel <philipp.zabel@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Philip Langdale, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006 Peter Korsgaard <jacmet@sunsite.dk>
Copyright (C) 2006 Pavel Pisa, PiKRON <ppisa@pikron.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Pavel Emelyanov <xemul@openvz.org> OpenVZ, SWsoft Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2006 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corporation <paulus@samba.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp. <paulus@samba.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006 Paolo Abeni (paolo.abeni@email.it)
Copyright (C) 2006 PA Semi, Inc
Copyright (C) 2006 Olof Johansson <olof@lixom.net>
Copyright (C) 2006 Oliver Endriss
Copyright (C) 2006 Nokia Corporation Tony Lindgren <tony@atomide.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Nokia Corporation Author: Imre Deak <imre.deak@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006 Nokia
Copyright (C) 2006 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu
Copyright (C) 2006 Nicolas VIVIEN
Copyright (C) 2006 Nicolas Boichat (nicolas@boichat.ch)
Copyright (C) 2006 Nicolas Boichat <nicolas @boichat.ch>
Copyright (C) 2006 Nick Piggin
Copyright (C) 2006 Nathaniel Clark <nate@misrule.us>
Copyright (C) 2006 NTT (Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation).
Copyright (C) 2006 NTT (Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation)
Copyright (C) 2006 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: Vitaly Wool
<vwool@ru.mvista.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Mohan Kumar M (mohan@in.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 2006 Mike Kravetz IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006 Mike Christie
Copyright (C) 2006 Micron Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Michel Xhaard
Copyright (C) 2006 Michael Krufky (mkrufky@linuxtv.org)
Copyright (C) 2006 Michael Hanselmann (linux-kernel@hansmi.ch)
Copyright (C) 2006 Michael Hanselmann <linux-kernel@hansmi.ch>
Copyright (C) 2006 Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2006 Michael Ellerman, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (C) 2006 Matthew Wilcox <matthew@wil.cx>
Copyright (C) 2006 Matt Callow
Copyright (C) 2006 Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2006 Markus Rechberger <mrechberger@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Markus Rechberger
Copyright (C) 2006 Mario Hlawitschka (dh1pa@amsat.org)
Copyright (C) 2006 Marco Gittler (g.marco@freenet.de)
Copyright (C) 2006 Manuel Francisco Naranjo (naranjo.manuel@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2006 Linxb (xubin.lin@worldplus.com.cn)
Copyright (C) 2006 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 2006 Lineo Solutions, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Lineo Solutions Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Lennert Buytenhek <buytenh@wantstofly.org> Dedicated to
Marija Kulikova.
Copyright (C) 2006 Lennert Buytenhek <buytenh@wantstofly.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Lennart Poettering <mzxreary (at) 0pointer (dot) de>
Copyright (C) 2006 Kyle McMartin <kyle@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Kyle McMartin <kyle at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Kumar Gala <galak@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Kristian Kielhofner <kris@krisk.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Kristian Hoegsberg <krh@bitplanet.net>
Copyright (C) 2006 Koninski Artur takeshi87@o2.pl
Copyright (C) 2006 Komal Shah <komal_shah802003@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Kaiwan N Billimoria <kaiwan@designergraphix.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Juergen Beisert, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2006 Juerg Haefliger <juergh@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Juan Carlos Borrás
Copyright (C) 2006 Juan Carlos BorrÃ¡s
Copyright (C) 2006 Jonathan McDowell <noodles@earth.li>
Copyright (C) 2006 Jon Grierson <jd@renko.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2006 Jim Cromie
Copyright (C) 2006 Jens Axboe <axboe@kernel.dk>
Copyright (C) 2006 Jaya Kumar
Copyright (C) 2006 Jamie Lenehan
Copyright (C) 2006 James Smart, Emulex Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006 James Painter <jamie.painter@iname.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 James McKenzie
Copyright (C) 2006 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael A.
Halcrow <mahalcro@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 International Business Machines Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006 Intel Corp. Tom Long Nguyen (tom.l.nguyen@intel.com) Zhang
Yanmin (yanmin.zhang@intel.com)
Copyright (C) 2006 Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006 Intel Corp, Zou Nan hai <nanhai.zou@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Intel Co Fenghua Yu <fenghua.yu@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Intel Co 2006-08-12  Anil S Keshavamurthy
<anil.s.keshavamurthy@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Ingo Molnar <mingo@elte.hu>
Copyright (C) 2006 Infosys Technologies Limited Toufeeq Hussain
<toufeeq_hussain@infosys.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Imre Kaloz <kaloz@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Ian Armstrong <ian@iarmst.demon.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2006 IBM Corporation, Timothy R. Chavez <tinytim@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006 Hewlett-Packard Co Alex Williamson <alex.williamson@hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Herbert Poetzl
Copyright (C) 2006 Hendrik Holtmann <holtmann@mac.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Hartmut Rick <linux@rick.claranet.de>
Copyright (C) 2006 Harald Welte <laforge@openezx.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Hans Verkuil (hverkuil@xs4all.nl)
Copyright (C) 2006 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2006 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2006 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Google, Inc
Copyright (C) 2006 George Kashperko <george@chas.com.ua>
Copyright (C) 2006 Georg Acher, BayCom GmbH, acher (at) baycom (dot) de for Reel
Multimedia
Copyright (C) 2006 G. Liakhovetski (g.liakhovetski@gmx.de)
Copyright (C) 2006 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2006 Freescale - John Rigby
Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Frank Mori Hess <fmhess@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2006 Filip Zyzniewski <filip.zyzniewski@tefnet.pl> Alex Lange
<chicken@handhelds.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Filip Zyzniewski <filip.zyzniewski@tefnet.pl>
Copyright (C) 2006 Felix Fietkau (nbd@openwrt.org)
Copyright (C) 2006 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Felipe Alfaro Solana <felipe_alfaro @linuxmail.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 FUJITSU LIMITED
Copyright (C) 2006 FUJITA Tomonori <tomof@acm.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 FON Technology, SL.
Copyright (C) 2006 Esben Nielsen Adaptive Spinlocks:
Copyright (C) 2006 Dominik Kuhlen
Copyright (C) 2006 Dennis Munsie <dmunsie@cecropia.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Denis Sadykov <denis.m.sadykov@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2006 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2006 David Gibson, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2006 David Brownell (new RTC framework)
Copyright (C) 2006 David Brownell (convert to new framework)
Copyright (C) 2006 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2006 Daniel Hellstrom <daniel@gaisler.com>, Aeroflex Gaisler AB
Copyright (C) 2006 Craig W. Nadler
Copyright (C) 2006 Corentin LABBE <clabbe.montjoie@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Contec Steuerungstechnik & Automation GmbH Manfred Gruber
<m.gruber@tirol.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Christoph Pfister (christophpfister@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2006 Chris Dearman (chris@mips.com),
Copyright (C) 2006 Chris Boot <bootc@bootc.net>
Copyright (C) 2006 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2006 Carlos Munoz <carlos@kenati.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Calin A. Culianu <calin@ajvar.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 C&C Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Broadcom Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2006 Bob Copeland (me@bobcopeland.com)
Copyright (C) 2006 Bob Copeland <me@bobcopeland.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp. benh@kernel.crashing.org>
and Arnd Bergmann, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp. benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006 Benjamin Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org) IBM, Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006 Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org> IBM, Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006 Aurelien Jacobs < aurel@gnuage.org >
Copyright (C) 2006 Atsushi Nemoto <anemo@mba.ocn.ne.jp>
Copyright (C) 2006 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006 Atmark Techno, Inc. Yasushi SHOJI <yashi@atmark-techno.com>
Tetsuya OHKAWA <tetsuya@atmark-techno.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Atmark Techno, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Arnd Bergmann <arnd@arndb.de>, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2006 Arnd Bergmann <arnd@arndb.de>
Copyright (C) 2006 Arcom Control Systems Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2006 Applied Data Systems
Copyright (C) 2006 AppSpec Computer Technologies Corp. Jeff Gibbons
<jeff.gibbons@appspec.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Antti Palosaari <crope@iki.fi> Aapo Tahkola
<aet@rasterburn.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Antti Palosaari <crope@iki.fi>
Copyright (C) 2006 Antonino Daplas <adaplas@pol.net>
Copyright (C) 2006 Andrey Volkov, Varma Electronics
Copyright (C) 2006 Andrey Volkov <avolkov@varma-el.com> Varma Electronics Oy
Copyright (C) 2006 Andrew de Quincey
Copyright (C) 2006 Alex Osborne <ato@meshy.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Alex Dubov <oakad@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Alan Nisota (alannisota@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2006 Alain < alain@knaff.lu >
Copyright (C) 2006 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 Aapo Tahkola (aet@rasterburn.org)
Copyright (C) 2006 ARM Ltd. written by Russell King, Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2006 8D Technologies inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 -2008 Gerard Klaver <gerard at gkall dot hobby dot nl>
Copyright (C) 2006 - 2010 ID7 Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2006 - 2009 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2006 - 2009 Ingenic Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright (C) 2006 - 2008 Sascha Sommer <saschasommer@freenet.de>
Copyright (C) 2006 - 2008 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2006 - 2008 Lemote Inc. & Institute of Computing Technology
Author: Yanhua, yanh@lemote.com
Copyright (C) 2006 - 2007 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2006 - 2007 Ivo van Doorn
Copyright (C) 2006 - 2007 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2006 - 2007 Akio Idehara
Copyright (C) 2006 (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2006 <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2006	Yoichi Yuasa <yuasa@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2005-9 DiBcom, SA et al
Copyright (C) 2005-9 DiBcom (http://www.dibcom.fr/)
Copyright (C) 2005-8 Patrick Boettcher <pb@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2005-7 DiBcom (http://www.dibcom.fr/)
Copyright (C) 2005-6 Patrick Boettcher <pb@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2005-6 Patrick Boettcher <pb@linuxtv.de>
Copyright (C) 2005-6 DiBcom, SA
Copyright (C) 2005-2016 Broadcom. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005-2016 Broadcom Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2005-2015, 2018-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2015 Promise Technology Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2014, 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2014, 2020-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2014, 2019-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2014, 2018-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2014, 2018-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2014, 2018-2020 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2014, 2018-2019, 2021-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2014, 2018-2019, 2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2014, 2018 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2014 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2005-2014 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2014 Dell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2013 MEV Ltd. <https://www.mev.co.uk/>
Copyright (C) 2005-2012 Tai-hwa Liang, Sentelic Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2005-2012 Randy Dunlap
Copyright (C) 2005-2012 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2005-2011, 2021-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2011 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005-2011 Nicolas Pitre <nico@fluxnic.net>
Copyright (C) 2005-2011 NTT DATA CORPORATION
Copyright (C) 2005-2011 Laurent Pinchart (laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com)
Copyright (C) 2005-2011 FUJITA Tomonori <tomof@acm.org>
Copyright (C) 2005-2010,2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2010 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2005-2010 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2010 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005-2010 Laurent Pinchart (laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com)
Copyright (C) 2005-2010 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2005-2010 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2010	MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2009, Uri Shkolnik, Anatoly Greenblat
Copyright (C) 2005-2009, 2010 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Wind River Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Texas Instruments Inc
Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it>
Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Nokia Corporation Author: Juha Yrjola
<juha.yrjola@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Laurent Pinchart (laurent.pinchart@ideasonboard.com)
Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2005-2009 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2008, PA Semi, Inc
Copyright (C) 2005-2008, 2015 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2008, 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Yoshinori Sato
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Ville Syrjala <syrjala@sci.fi>
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Stelian Pop (stelian@popies.net)
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Pierre Ossman, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 KeyStream Corp.
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Johannes Berg (johannes@sipsolutions.net)
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Intel Co. Fenghua Yu <fenghua.yu@intel.com> Bibo Mao
<bibo.mao@intel.com> Chandramouli Narayanan <mouli@linux.intel.com> Huang Ying
<ying.huang@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Intel Co.
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Cavium Networks, Inc
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 Auvitek International, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2005-2008 ARM
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 kogiidena
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 by Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Ulrich Kunitz <kune@deine-taler.de>
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Takahiro Hirofuchi
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Stanislaw Skowronek <skylark@unaligned.org> 2006-2007,
2014-2015 Joshua Kinard <kumba@gentoo.org> 2009 Johannes Dickgreber
<tanzy@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Samsung Electronics Kyungmin Park
<kyungmin.park@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Richard Purdie <rpurdie@openedhand.com>
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Red Hat GmbH
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Pierre Ossman, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Micronas
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Kristian Hoegsberg <krh@bitplanet.net>
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Jiri Slaby <jirislaby@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 Asia Vital Components Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2005-2007 AMD (https://www.amd.com) Author: Thomas Dahlmann
Copyright (C) 2005-2007	E.M. Smith
Copyright (C) 2005-2006, Thomas Gleixner, Russell King
Copyright (C) 2005-2006, Thomas Gleixner
Copyright (C) 2005-2006, P.Christeas <p_christ@hol.gr>
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 by Texas Instruments 
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 by Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Timesys Corp., Thomas Gleixner <tglx@timesys.com>
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Thomas Gleixner
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Thomas Bogendoerfer (tsbogend@alpha.franken.de)
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Thibaut VARENE <varenet@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 TL Sudheendran
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@linux.it>
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 PLX Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Micronas USA Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 M. Amine SAYA, ATMEL Rousset, France Revision 2005 M.
Nicolas Diremdjian, ATMEL Rousset, France, David Brownell.
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Linus Torvalds <torvalds@osdl.org>
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Kristian Hoegsberg <krh@bitplanet.net>
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Jens Axboe <axboe@kernel.dk>
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Jan Rychter <jan@rychter.com>
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Harald Welte <laforge@openezx.org>, 2007-2008 Daniel
Ribeiro <drwyrm@gmail.com>, 2007-2008 Stefan Schmidt <stefan@datenfreihafen.org>
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Florian Lohoff (flo@rfc822.org)
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Dell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Anthony Liguori <aliguori@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2005-2006 Andrey Volkov <avolkov@varma-el.com>, Varma Electronics
Oy
Copyright (C) 2005-10 DiBcom (http://www.dibcom.fr/)
Copyright (C) 2005-06 Tower Technologies Author: Alessandro Zummo
<a.zummo@towertech.it>
Copyright (C) 2005,2008,2009 Albert Herranz Torben Nielsen.
Copyright (C) 2005,2006,2007,2008 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005,2006 Yoshinori Sato
Copyright (C) 2005,2006 Hongjiu Lu <hongjiu.lu@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2005,2006 Dominik Brodowski <linux@dominikbrodowski.net>
Copyright (C) 2005, Thibaut Varene <varenet@parisc-linux.org> Randolph Chung
<tausq@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2005, Pavel Roskin. See main.c for license.
Copyright (C) 2005, Marcel Selhorst <tpmdd@selhorst.net> Sirrix AG - security
technologies <tpmdd@sirrix.com> and Applied Data Security Group, Ruhr-University
Bochum, Germany
Copyright (C) 2005, Jaya Kumar <jayalk@intworks.biz>
Copyright (C) 2005, Intec Automation Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005, Intec Automation (mike@steroidmicros.com)
Copyright (C) 2005, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2005, Freescale (www.freescale.com)
Copyright (C) 2005, 2012 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005, 2008, 2009 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2005, 2008 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2008 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2008 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005, 2007, 2008, 2009 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2005, 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 by Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 by Eric Van Hensbergen <ericvh@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 XenSource Ltd
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Nokia Corporation Author: Samuel Ortiz
<samuel.ortiz@nokia.com> and Juha Yrjola <juha.yrjola@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Nokia Corporation Author:      Samuel Ortiz
<samuel.ortiz@nokia.com> and Juha Yrjola <juha.yrjola@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Michael H. Schimek Sponsored by OPQ Systems AB
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Michael H. Schimek <mschimek@gmx.at> Sponsored by OPQ
Systems AB
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Michael Buesch <m@bues.ch>
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 IBM Corporation All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Chuck Lever <cel@netapp.com>
Copyright (C) 2005, 2006 Arnaud Giersch.
Copyright (C) 2005, 07 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2005, 06 by Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2005, 06 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2005 m5603x Linux Driver Project <m5602@x3ng.com.br>
Copyright (C) 2005 by Thomas Winischhofer, Vienna, Austria
Copyright (C) 2005 by Stefan Lucke
Copyright (C) 2005 by Latchesar Ionkov <lucho@ionkov.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 by Ivan Kokshaysky
Copyright (C) 2005 by HP Labs
Copyright (C) 2005 by Eric Van Hensbergen <ericvh@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 by Digi International Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005 by David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2005 by Ash Willis <ashwillis@programmer.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 Zymeta Corporation - Michael Downey (downey@zymeta.com)
Copyright (C) 2005 Yoshinori Sato
Copyright (C) 2005 Yani Ioannou <yani.ioannou@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 XenSource Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2005 XenSource Ltd
Copyright (C) 2005 Wilson Michaels <wilsonmichaels@earthlink.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 Venkatesh Pallipadi <venkatesh.pallipadi@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Varma Electronics Oy, by Andrey Volkov <avolkov@varma-el.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Trond Myklebust <Trond.Myklebust@netapp.com> David Howells
<dhowells@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Trond Myklebust
Copyright (C) 2005 Tower Technologies Author: Alessandro Zummo
<a.zummo@towertech.it>
Copyright (C) 2005 Torsten Koschorrek <koschorrek at synertronixx.de
Copyright (C) 2005 Thomas Kaiser thomas@kaiser-linux.li
Copyright (C) 2005 Thomas Hergenhahn <thomas.hergenhahn@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2005 Thiemo Seufer
Copyright (C) 2005 Thibaut VARENE <varenet@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 Texas Instruments, Inc. Richard Woodruff <r-woodruff2@ti.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005 Texas Instruments Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2005 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005 Takahiro Hirofuchi
Copyright (C) 2005 T. Adachi <tadachi@tadachi-net.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Sylvain Munaut <tnt@246tNt.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Sven Luther <sl@bplan-gmbh.de> Dale Farnsworth
<dale@farnsworth.org> Mark A. Greer <mgreer@mvista.com> Nicolas DET <nd@bplan-
gmbh.de> Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org> And anyone else who
helped me on this.
Copyright (C) 2005 Stuart Brady
Copyright (C) 2005 Steven Toth <stoth@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 Stephen Street / StreetFire Sound Labs
Copyright (C) 2005 Stephen Rothwell, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005 Stephen Hemminger <shemminger@osdl.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 Stelian Pop (stelian@popies.net)
Copyright (C) 2005 Stefano Brivio <stefano.brivio@polimi.it>
Copyright (C) 2005 Stefano Brivio <st3@riseup.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 Stanislaw Skowronek <skylark@unaligned.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2005 Simtec Electronics
Copyright (C) 2005 Silicon Graphics, Inc
Copyright (C) 2005 Sensoria Corp. Nicolas Pitre
Copyright (C) 2005 Sensoria Corp
Copyright (C) 2005 Sean Young <sean@mess.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 ScaleMP Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2005 SGI, Christoph Lameter
Copyright (C) 2005 SAN People
Copyright (C) 2005 Rusty Russell, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005 Rusty Russell IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005 Rusty Russell <rusty@rustcorp.com.au>
Copyright (C) 2005 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 2005 Robert Love <rml@novell.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Richard Purdie <rpurdie@openedhand.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Red Hat, Inc., James Morris <jmorris@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2005 Ralph Metzler <rjkm@metzlerbros.de> Metzler Brothers
Systementwicklung GbR
Copyright (C) 2005 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2005 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 Rajesh Shah (rajesh.shah@intel.com)
Copyright (C) 2005 R Sharada (sharada@in.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 2005 Philippe De Muyter (phdm@macqel.be)
Copyright (C) 2005 Phil Chang <pchang23@sbcglobal.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 Peter Osterlund (petero2@telia.com)
Copyright (C) 2005 Peter Fuerst (pf@net.alphadv.de)
Copyright (C) 2005 Pete Zaitcev (zaitcev@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2005 Pekka Enberg
Copyright (C) 2005 Pavel Mironchik <pmironchik@optifacio.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 Pavel Machek
Copyright (C) 2005 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2005 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp. <paulus@samba.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 Paul Mackerras <paulus@samba.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 Patrick Mochel
Copyright (C) 2005 Patrick Boettcher (patrick.boettcher@posteo.de)
Copyright (C) 2005 Patrick Boettcher <pb@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 Patrick Boettcher <patrick.boettcher@posteo.de>
Copyright (C) 2005 Paolo 'Blaisorblade' Giarrusso <blaisorblade@yahoo.it>
Copyright (C) 2005 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005 Olav Kongas <ok@artecdesign.ee>
Copyright (C) 2005 Nokia Corporation Written by Tony Lindgren <tony@atomide.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Nokia Corporation Author: Paul Mundt <paul.mundt@nokia.com>
Juha Yrjölä <juha.yrjola@nokia.com> Timo Teras
Copyright (C) 2005 Nokia Corporation Author: Paul Mundt <paul.mundt@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Nokia Corporation Author: Lauri Leukkunen
<lauri.leukkunen@nokia.com>  Timo Teras.
Copyright (C) 2005 Nokia Corporation Author: Juha Yrjölä <juha.yrjola@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005 Nguyen Anh Quynh <aquynh@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Nathan Lynch
Copyright (C) 2005 Narayanan R S <nars@kadamba.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 MontaVista Software Inc. <source@mvista.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Mips Technologies, Inc
Copyright (C) 2005 Mips Technologies Author: Chris Dearman, chris@mips.com
Copyright (C) 2005 Miloslav Trmac <mitr@volny.cz>
Copyright (C) 2005 Mike Wray, Hewlett-Packard
Copyright (C) 2005 Mike Isely <isely@pobox.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Mike Christie. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005 Mike Christie
Copyright (C) 2005 Michel Xhaard mxhaard@magic.fr
Copyright (C) 2005 Michael Hund <mhund@ld-didactic.de>
Copyright (C) 2005 Michael Hanselmann (linux-kernel@hansmi.ch)
Copyright (C) 2005 Michael Gernoth <michael@gernoth.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 Matthias Urlichs <smurf@smurf.noris.de>
Copyright (C) 2005 Matthias Blaschke <blaschke at synertronixx.de
Copyright (C) 2005 Martin Vaughan
Copyright (C) 2005 Martin Langer <martin-langer@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2005 Markus Rechberger <mrechberger@gmail.com> Ludovico Cavedon
<cavedon@sssup.it> Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 Mark M. Hoffman <mhoffman@lightlink.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Marc Kleine-Budde, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2005 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2005 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005 MIPS Technologies, Inc.      All rights reserved. Author:
Maciej W. Rozycki <macro@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005 MEV Ltd. <https://www.mev.co.uk/>
Copyright (C) 2005 Ludovico Cavedon <cavedon@sssup.it> Markus Rechberger
<mrechberger@gmail.com> Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org> Sascha Sommer
<saschasommer@freenet.de>
Copyright (C) 2005 Luben Tuikov <luben_tuikov@adaptec.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Lothar Wassmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
Copyright (C) 2005 Kontron Canada
Copyright (C) 2005 Kirk Lapray (kirk.lapray@gmail.com) Taylor Jacob
<rtjacob@earthlink.net> Jean-Francois Thibert (jeanfrancois@sagetv.com)
Copyright (C) 2005 Kirk Lapray <kirk_lapray@bigfoot.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Kirk Lapray <kirk.lapray@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Kihon Technologies Inc., Steven Rostedt
Copyright (C) 2005 Khalid Aziz <khalid.aziz@hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Keith Owens <kaos@sgi.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 John Williams <jwilliams@itee.uq.edu.au>
Copyright (C) 2005 John McCutchan
Copyright (C) 2005 John Lenz <lenz@cs.wisc.edu>
Copyright (C) 2005 Johannes Berg (johannes@sipsolutions.net)
Copyright (C) 2005 Jesper Juhl <jj@chaosbits.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 Jeff Dike (jdike@karaya.com)
Copyright (C) 2005 James Chapman (ds1337 core)
Copyright (C) 2005 Ivan Kokshaysky
Copyright (C) 2005 International Business Machines Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005 International Business Machines
Copyright (C) 2005 Intel Corporation Venkatesh Pallipadi
<venkatesh.pallipadi@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005 Intel Corp, Zou Nan hai <nanhai.zou@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Intel Corp Venkatesh Pallipadi
<venkatesh.pallipadi@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Intel Corp	Zou Nan hai <nanhai.zou@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Ilya A. Volynets-Evenbakh <ilya@total-knowledge.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Ilya A. Volynets-Evenbakh
Copyright (C) 2005 Ilya A. Volynets (Total Knowledge)
Copyright (C) 2005 Ilya A. Volynets <ilya@total-knowledge.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 IBM.
Copyright (C) 2005 IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2005 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005 IBM
Copyright (C) 2005 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
Copyright (C) 2005 Hewlett-Packard Development Comapny, L.P.
Copyright (C) 2005 Hewlett-Packard Co Dan Magenheimer <dan.magenheimer@hp.com>
Xen paravirtualization
Copyright (C) 2005 Hewlett-Packard Co Alex Williamson <alex.williamson@hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl> Cleanup
Copyright (C) 2005 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2005 Gyorgy Jeney <nog@bsemi.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Guillaume Thouvenin <guillaume.thouvenin@bull.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2005 Gilbert Wu <gilbert_wu@adaptec.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Georg Acher, BayCom GmbH (acher at baycom dot de)
Copyright (C) 2005 Frank Arnold (frank@scirocco-5v-turbo.de)
Copyright (C) 2005 Faraday Corp.
Copyright (C) 2005 Eric Biederman <ebiederm@xmission.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Embedded Alley Solutions, Inc
Copyright (C) 2005 Duncan Sands, Roman Kagan (rkagan % mail ! ru)
Copyright (C) 2005 Dmitry Yusupov
Copyright (C) 2005 Dmitry Torokhov <dtor@mail.ru>
Copyright (C) 2005 Dmitry Torokhov
Copyright (C) 2005 Dirk Behme
Copyright (C) 2005 Dell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005 Deepak Saxena <dsaxena@plexity.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 David Shaohua Li <shaohua.li@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2005 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2005 Danny van Dyk <kugelfang@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 Craig Shelley (craig@microtron.org.uk)
Copyright (C) 2005 Calin A. Culianu <calin@ajvar.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005 Bob Copeland <me@bobcopeland.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Bernhard Rosenkraenzer <bero@arklinux.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 Benjamin Herrenschmidy <benh@kernel.crashing.org>, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2005 Benjamin Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org) IBM, Corp.
Copyright (C) 2005 Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>, IBM
Corporation
Copyright (C) 2005 Ben. Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org)
Copyright (C) 2005 Ben Gardner <bgardner@wabtec.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 BULL SA.
Copyright (C) 2005 Arthur Huillet (ahuillet@users.sf.net)
Copyright (C) 2005 Arcom Control Systems Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2005 Antonino Daplas <adaplas@pol.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 Antonino Daplas <adaplas @pol.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 Anthony Liguori <aliguori@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 Andriy Skulysh
Copyright (C) 2005 Andrew de Quincey <adq_dvb@lidskialf.net>
Copyright (C) 2005 Andreas Oberritter <obi@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2005 Andreas Jaggi <andreas.jaggi@waterwave.ch>
Copyright (C) 2005 Anders Blomdell <anders.blomdell@control.lth.se>
Copyright (C) 2005 Alex Aizman maintained by open-iscsi@googlegroups.com
Copyright (C) 2005 Alessandro Zummo <a.zummo@towertech.it>
Copyright (C) 2005 Adaptec, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005 AXE,Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2005 ARM Ltd
Copyright (C) 2005 - 2016 Broadcom All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005 - 2012 Cavium Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005 - 2011 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2005 - 2011 Myricom, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2005 - 2010 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2005 - 2009 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2005 - 2008 Tensilica, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2005 - 2008 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2005 - 2008 Jeff Dike <jdike@{linux.intel,addtoit}.com>
Copyright (C) 2005 - 2008 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2005 - 2007 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2005 - 2006 Mike Christie
Copyright (C) 2005 <bradlch@hotmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2005	Grant Coady <gcoady.lk@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2005	Chuck Lever <cel@netapp.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-9 Patrick Boettcher <patrick.boettcher@posteo.de>
Copyright (C) 2004-7 DiBcom (http://www.dibcom.fr/)
Copyright (C) 2004-6 Patrick Boettcher (patrick.boettcher@posteo.de)
Copyright (C) 2004-6 Patrick Boettcher <patrick.boettcher@posteo.de>
Copyright (C) 2004-6 DiBcom (http://www.dibcom.fr/)
Copyright (C) 2004-5 by Florian 'Floe' Echtler <echtler@fs.tum.de> and Andreas
'ad' Deresch <aderesch@fs.tum.de>
Copyright (C) 2004-5 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2004-5 Patrick Boettcher (patrick.boettcher@posteo.de) see
Copyright (C) 2004-5 Patrick Boettcher (patrick.boettcher@posteo.de)
Copyright (C) 2004-5 Patrick Boettcher (patrick.boettcher@desy.de)
Copyright (C) 2004-2021 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2019 Bernd Porr, mail@berndporr.me.uk
Copyright (C) 2004-2017 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2016 Synopsys, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2016 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2016 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2014 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2013 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2004-2013 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2004-2013 Synopsys, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2013 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2012 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2012 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2004-2011 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2011 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004-2011 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2011 Comtrol, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2010 Sage Weil <sage@newdream.net>
Copyright (C) 2004-2010 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2010 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004-2010 Markus Grabner (grabner@icg.tugraz.at) Emil Myhrman
(emil.myhrman@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2004-2010 Markus Grabner (grabner@icg.tugraz.at)
Copyright (C) 2004-2010 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2010 Dominik Brodowski
Copyright (C) 2004-2009 The GameCube Linux Team
Copyright (C) 2004-2009 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2009 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2009 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004-2009 Mattia Dongili <malattia@gmail.com>.
Copyright (C) 2004-2009 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2009 EMS Dr. Thomas Wuensche
Copyright (C) 2004-2009 Dominik Brodowski <linux@dominikbrodowski.net>
Copyright (C) 2004-2009 Dominik Brodowski <linux@dominikbrodowski.de>
Copyright (C) 2004-2009 Applied Micro Circuits Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2004-2008, Philipp Reisner <philipp.reisner@linbit.com>.
Copyright (C) 2004-2008, Lars Ellenberg <lars.ellenberg@linbit.com>.
Copyright (C) 2004-2008, LINBIT Information Technologies GmbH.
Copyright (C) 2004-2008, 2009, 2010 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2004-2008 by Eric Van Hensbergen <ericvh@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2008 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/
Copyright (C) 2004-2008 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2008 SMSC
Copyright (C) 2004-2008 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2008 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2004-2008 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2004-2008 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael
A. Halcrow <mhalcrow@us.ibm.com> Tyler Hicks <code@tyhicks.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2008 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael
A. Halcrow <mahalcro@us.ibm.com> Trevor S. Highland <trevor.highland@gmail.com>
Tyler Hicks <code@tyhicks.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2008 Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2008 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2004-2008 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004-2007,2011-2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All rights
reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2007, David Dillow Written by David Dillow
<dave@thedillows.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 by Daniel Ritz <daniel.ritz@gmx.ch>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Vladimir Lebedev <vladimir.p.lebedev@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Texas Instruments, Inc. Tony Lindgren <tony@atomide.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Stanislaw Skowronek <skylark@unaligned.org> 2014 Joshua
Kinard <kumba@gentoo.org> 2009 Johannes Dickgreber <tanzy@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Stanislaw Skowronek <skylark@unaligned.org> 2009
Johannes Dickgreber <tanzy@gmx.de> 2007-2015 Joshua Kinard <kumba@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Stanislaw Skowronek <skylark@unaligned.org> 2007 Joshua
Kinard <kumba@gentoo.org> 2009 Johannes Dickgreber <tanzy@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Stanislaw Skowronek <skylark@unaligned.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Pierre Ossman, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 John Williams <john.williams@petalogix.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de> Gabriele Gorla
<gorlik@yahoo.com> and Jean Delvare
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 James Smart, Emulex Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael
A. Halcrow <mhalcrow@us.ibm.com> Michael C. Thompson <mcthomps@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael
A. Halcrow <mahalcro@us.ibm.com> Michael C. Thompson <mcthomps@us.ibm.com> Tyler
Hicks <code@tyhicks.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael
A. Halcrow <mahalcro@us.ibm.com> Michael C. Thompson <mcthomps@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael
A. Halcrow <mahalcro@us.ibm.com> Michael C. Thompsion <mcthomps@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael
A. Halcrow <mahalcro@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Herbert Pötzl - Arnaud Patard Ben Dooks <ben-
linux@fluff.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2004-2007 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004-2006, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 maintech GmbH, Thomas Kleffel <tk@maintech.de>
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Trusted Computer Solutions, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Tom Rini <trini@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Thomas Kleffel, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Sylvain Munaut <tnt@246tNt.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Richard Purdie
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 MontaVista Software, Inc. Dale Farnsworth
<dale@farnsworth.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Macq Electronique SA. (www.macqel.com)
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 LinSysSoft Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Kristian Hoegsberg <krh@bitplanet.net>
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael
A. Halcrow <mhalcrow@us.ibm.com> Michael C. Thompson <mcthomps@us.ibm.com>
Trevor S. Highland <trevor.highland@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael
A. Halcrow <mahalcro@us.ibm.com> Michael C. Thompson <mcthomps@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 International Business Machines Corp. Author(s): Michael
A. Halcrow <mahalcro@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Hyok S. Choi (hyok.choi@samsung.com)
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Emulex. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2006 Atmel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004-2006	Joern Engel <joern@wh.fh-wedel.de>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005, Kyle McMartin <kyle@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2004-2005, 2008, 2013 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written
by David Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2004-2005, 2008 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by
David Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 by Latchesar Ionkov <lucho@ionkov.net>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Trusted Computer Solutions, Inc. dgoeddel@trustedcs.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Trusted Computer Solutions, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Sylvain Munaut <tnt@246tNt.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Stelian Pop <stelian@popies.net>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Richard Purdie <rpurdie@rpsys.net>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Richard Purdie 
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Richard Purdie
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Pierre Ossman, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Nokia Corporation. Dynamic Tick Timer written by Tony
Lindgren <tony@atomide.com> and Tuukka Tikkanen
<tuukka.tikkanen@elektrobit.com>.
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Nokia Corporation Authors: Juha Yrjölä
<juha.yrjola@nokia.com> Imre Deak <imre.deak@nokia.com> Jussi Laako
<jussi.laako@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Nokia Corporation Author: Juha Yrjölä
<juha.yrjola@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: Manish Lachwani,
mlachwani@mvista.com or manish@koffee-break.com
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Martin Langer <martin-langer@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Intel Corporation <jketreno@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 IBM Corp. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Christoph Hellwig 
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Borislav Deianov <borislav@users.sf.net>
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Andrey Volkov <avolkov@varma-el.com>, Varma Electronics
Oy
Copyright (C) 2004-2005 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2004- 2005 Stelian Pop <stelian@popies.net>
Copyright (C) 2004,2019 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (C) 2004,2012 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004,2008 Laurent Vivier <Laurent@lvivier.info>
Copyright (C) 2004,2007,2008 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004,2005,2009 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2004,2005 Milton D Miller II, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004,2005 ADDI-DATA GmbH for the source code of this module.
Copyright (C) 2004,2005 ADDI-DATA GmbH Project manager: S. Weber
Copyright (C) 2004,2005 ADDI-DATA GmbH Project manager: Eric Stolz
Copyright (C) 2004, OGAWA Hirofumi
Copyright (C) 2004, Microtronix Datacom Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2004, LynuxWorks, Inc., Igor Manyilov, Bill Huey
Copyright (C) 2004, Kyle McMartin <kyle@{debian.org,parisc-linux.org}>
Copyright (C) 2004, Kyle McMartin <kyle@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2004, Intel Corporation <jketreno@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004, David Woodhouse, Roman Kagan
Copyright (C) 2004, David Woodhouse
Copyright (C) 2004, 2013 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2004, 2013 Intel Corporation Author: Naveen B S
<naveen.b.s@intel.com> Author: Rafael J. Wysocki <rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2013 Intel Corp. Author: Rafael J. Wysocki
<rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2012 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004, 2010-2011 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004, 2010 Nokia Corporation Written by Timo Teras <ext-
timo.teras@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2008 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2004, 2008 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004, 2008 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004, 2008 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2007-2010, 2011-2012, 2019-20 Synopsys, Inc.
(www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2004, 2007-2010, 2011-2012 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
Copyright (C) 2004, 2007 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2004, 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2004, 2007 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2007 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004, 2006, 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved. Author:
Maciej W. Rozycki <macro@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2006, 2008 Thiemo Seufer
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2006 Red Hat, Inc., Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005, 2006 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 by Andriy Skulysh
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Winbond Electronics Corp. Shane Huang, Rudolf Marek
<r.marek@assembler.cz>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Stephen Hemminger <shemminger@osdl.org>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Stefan Ott <stefan@desire.ch>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Paul Mundt <lethal@linux-sh.org>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Oracle.
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Martin Habets (mhabets@users.sourceforge.net)
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Manu Abraham (manu@kromtek.com)
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved. Author:
Maciej W. Rozycki <macro@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 IBM, John Stultz (johnstul@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Hans Verkuil <hverkuil@xs4all.nl>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Dominik Brodowski <linux@brodo.de>
Copyright (C) 2004, 2005 Chris Pascoe
Copyright (C) 2004, 06 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2004, 05, 06 MIPS Technologies, Inc. Elizabeth Clarke
(beth@mips.com) Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2004, 05 Thomas Osterried DL9SAU <thomas@x-berg.in-berlin.de>
Copyright (C) 2004, 05 Ralf Baechle DL5RB <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 convergence GmbH
Copyright (C) 2004 by Thomas Rathbone, HP Labs
Copyright (C) 2004 by Thomas Rathbone
Copyright (C) 2004 by Symmetric Systems Ltd (NZ)
Copyright (C) 2004 by Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2004 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2004 by Jan-Benedict Glaw <jbglaw@lug-owl.de>
Copyright (C) 2004 by FS Forth-Systeme GmbH All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004 by Eric Van Hensbergen <ericvh@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 by David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2004 by Daniel Ritz
Copyright (C) 2004 by Christoph Hellwig <hch@lst.de>
Copyright (C) 2004 by Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (C) 2004 by Al Borchers (alborchers@steinerpoint.com).
Copyright (C) 2004 Xilinx, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 Vernon Mauery <vernux@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Utilitek Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 Ulf Eklund <ivtv at eklund.to>
Copyright (C) 2004 Ulf Eklund
Copyright (C) 2004 Trond Myklebust
Copyright (C) 2004 Tom Long Nguyen <tom.l.nguyen@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Thomas Gleixner (tglx@linutronix.de)
Copyright (C) 2004 Thiemo Seufer
Copyright (C) 2004 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2004 Texas Instruments, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 Texas Instruments and
Copyright (C) 2004 Texas Instruments
Copyright (C) 2004 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2004 Sylvain Munaut <tnt@246tNt.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Sun Microsystems Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 Steven Toth <stoth@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 Steven J. Hill <sjhill1@rockwellcollins.com>
sjhill@realitydiluted.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Steven J. Hill
Copyright (C) 2004 Sten Wang <sten.wang@rdc.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2004 Stefan Holst (mail@s-holst.de), Uni-Stuttgart
Copyright (C) 2004 Stefan Holst (mail@s-holst.de) Uni-Stuttgart
Copyright (C) 2004 Simtec Electronics
Copyright (C) 2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc. Jesse Barnes <jbarnes@sgi.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 Sean Young <sean@mess.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2004 Salvador E. Tropea <set@users.sf.net> <set@ieee.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 Saito.K & Jeanne(ksaito@interface.co.jp)
Copyright (C) 2004 SAN People (Pty) Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2004 SAN People
Copyright (C) 2004 S.Hauer, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2004 Ryan S Arnold, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004 Rusty Russell IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 2004 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2004 Roelf Diedericks <roelfd@inet.co.za>
Copyright (C) 2004 Rick Bronson Andrew Victor <andrew@sanpeople.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Richard Purdie
Copyright (C) 2004 Richard Curnow
Copyright (C) 2004 Red Hat, Inc., James Morris <jmorris@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2004 Red Hat
Copyright (C) 2004 Randolph Chung <tausq@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2004 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2004 Psion Teklogix
Copyright (C) 2004 Peter Fuerst (pf@net.alphadv.de)
Copyright (C) 2004 Pete Trapps
Copyright (C) 2004 Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2004 Pekka Pietikainen (pp@ee.oulu.fi)
Copyright (C) 2004 Pavel Pisa
Copyright (C) 2004 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 2004 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2004 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2004 Paul Mackerras (paulus@samba.org) and Benjamin Herrenschmidt
(benh@kernel.crashing.org)
Copyright (C) 2004 Paul Mackerras <paulus@au.ibm.com>, IBM
Copyright (C) 2004 Patrick Mochel 2005 Rudolf Marek <r.marek@assembler.cz>
Copyright (C) 2004 Patrick Boettcher (patrick.boettcher@posteo.de)
Copyright (C) 2004 PathScale, Inc
Copyright (C) 2004 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004 Olof Johansson, IBM Corporation and Ben. Herrenschmidt, IBM
Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004 Olof Johansson <olof@lixom.net>, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004 Novell, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004 Nokia Corporation by Tony Lindrgen <tony@atomide.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Nokia Corporation by Tony Lindgren <tony@atomide.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Nokia Corporation by Imre Deak <imre.deak@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Nokia Corporation Written by Tuukka Tikkanen and Juha
Yrjölä<juha.yrjola@nokia.com> Tony Lindgren <tony@atomide.com> David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2004 Nokia Corporation Written by Tony Lindgren <tony@atomide.com>
Major cleanups by Juha Yrjölä <juha.yrjola@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Nokia Corporation Written by Tony Lindgren <tony@atomide.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Nokia Corporation Tony Lindgen <tony@atomide.com> and Tuukka
Tikkanen <tuukka.tikkanen@elektrobit.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Nokia Corporation Author: Samuel Ortiz
<samuel.ortiz@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Nokia Corporation Author: Imre Deak <imre.deak@nokia.com>
<dirk.behme@de.bosch.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Nokia Corporation Author: Imre Deak <imre.deak@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004 Neil Brown
Copyright (C) 2004 Nathan Lynch IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2004 Nadia Yvette Chambers
Copyright (C) 2004 Motoyuki Ito (motoyuki@soft.fujitsu.com)
Copyright (C) 2004 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 MontaVista Software Inc. Manish Lachwani,
mlachwani@mvista.com
Copyright (C) 2004 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: Manish Lachwani,
mlachwani@mvista.com
Copyright (C) 2004 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: Manish Lachwani
(mlachwani@mvista.com)
Copyright (C) 2004 MontaVista Software
Copyright (C) 2004 Microtronix Datacom Ltd. Written by Wentao Xu
<xuwentao@microtronix.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Microtronix Datacom Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2004 Microtronix Datacom Ltd
Copyright (C) 2004 Michel Xhaard mxhaard@magic.fr
Copyright (C) 2004 Michel Lachine <mike@mikelachaine.ca>
Copyright (C) 2004 Matthias Badaire
Copyright (C) 2004 Matthew Wilcox <matthew@wil.cx>
Copyright (C) 2004 Markus Schulz <msc@antzsystem.de>
Copyright (C) 2004 Mark M. Hoffman <mhoffman@lightlink.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2004 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004 Luming Yu <luming.yu@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Lothar Wassmann
Copyright (C) 2004 Lonnie Mendez (dignome@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2004 Liu Peng Infineon IFAP DC COM CPE
Copyright (C) 2004 Linda Xie <lxie@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 LinSysSoft Technologies Pvt. Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2004 Li Shaohua <shaohua.li@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Len Brown <len.brown@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Ladislav Michl
Copyright (C) 2004 Kyle McMartin <kyle@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 Konrad Eisele (eiselekd@web.de,konrad@gaisler.com), Gaisler
Research
Copyright (C) 2004 Konrad Eisele (eiselekd@web.de,konrad@gaisler.com) Gaisler
Research
Copyright (C) 2004 Konrad Eisele (eiselekd@web.de, konrad@gaisler.com) Gaisler
Research
Copyright (C) 2004 Keith M Wesolowski (wesolows@foobazco.org)
Copyright (C) 2004 Keith M Wesolowski
Copyright (C) 2004 Keiichiro Tokunaga (tokunaga.keiich@jp.fujitsu.com)
Copyright (C) 2004 Kay Sievers <kay.sievers@vrfy.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 Justin Thiessen <jthiessen@penguincomputing.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 John Steele Scott <toojays@toojays.net>
Copyright (C) 2004 Jochen Friedrich <jochen@scram.de>
Copyright (C) 2004 Jochen Friedrich
Copyright (C) 2004 Jens Axboe <axboe@kernel.dk>
Copyright (C) 2004 Jeff Lackey.
Copyright (C) 2004 Jeff Dike (jdike@addtoit.com)
Copyright (C) 2004 Jean-Frederic Clere.
Copyright (C) 2004 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2004 Jan M. Hochstein hochstein@algo.informatik.tu-darmstadt.de>
Copyright (C) 2004 Jamey Hicks <jamey.hicks@hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Interface Co.,Ltd. Saito.K
Copyright (C) 2004 Interface Co., Ltd. Saito.K
Copyright (C) 2004 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2004 Intel Corporation Ashok Raj <ashok.raj@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Intel Corporation <matthew.e.tolentino@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Intel Corporation <jketreno@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2004 Intel
Copyright (C) 2004 Infineon IFAP DC COM CPE
Copyright (C) 2004 Ian Molton, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004 Ian Molton
Copyright (C) 2004 Ian Campbell.
Copyright (C) 2004 IDT Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 ICT CAS Author: Li xiaoyu, lixy@ict.ac.cn
Copyright (C) 2004 ICT CAS Author: Li xiaoyu, ICT CAS lixy@ict.ac.cn
Copyright (C) 2004 IBM, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004 IBM Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 IBM Deutschland Entwicklung GmbH, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004 IBM Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004 IBM Corporation, Rusty Russell.
Copyright (C) 2004 IBM Corporation Authors: Leendert van Doorn
<leendert@watson.ibm.com> Dave Safford <safford@watson.ibm.com> Reiner Sailer
<sailer@watson.ibm.com> Kylene Hall <kjhall@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2004 Hyok S. Choi (MPU support)
Copyright (C) 2004 Hyok S. Choi
Copyright (C) 2004 Hong-Gunn Chew <hglinux@gunnet.org> and Jean Delvare
<jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2004 Hollis Blanchard, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004 Hollis Blanchard <hollisb@us.ibm.com>, IBM
Copyright (C) 2004 Hidetoshi Seto <seto.hidetoshi@jp.fujitsu.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Herbert Poetzl <herbert@13thfloor.at>
Copyright (C) 2004 Greg Ungerer <gerg@uclinux.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Google, Inc. (Ken Harrenstien)
Copyright (C) 2004 Fujitsu Siemens Computers GmbH Author: Bodo Stroesser
(bodo.stroesser@fujitsu-siemens.com)
Copyright (C) 2004 Fujitsu Siemens Computers GmbH Author: Bodo Stroesser
<bstroesser@fujitsu-siemens.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Fujitsu Siemens Computers GmbH
Copyright (C) 2004 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 Florian Schirmer (jolt@tuxbox.org)
Copyright (C) 2004 Florian Schirmer <jolt@tuxbox.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 FUJITSU LIMITED
Copyright (C) 2004 Eric Varsanyi
Copyright (C) 2004 Embedded Edge, LLC <dan@embeddededge.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Embedded Edge, LLC
Copyright (C) 2004 Ducrot Bruno <ducrot@poupinou.org>, 2004.
Copyright (C) 2004 Dominik Brodowski <linux@brodo.de>
Copyright (C) 2004 Dmitry Yusupov
Copyright (C) 2004 Dmitry Torokhov
Copyright (C) 2004 Dirk Behme <dirk.behme@de.bosch.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 David Woodhouse, Duncan Sands, Roman Kagan
Copyright (C) 2004 David S. Miller <davem@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2004 David Gibson, IBM Corporation. Author: Andy Fleming
Copyright (C) 2004 David Gibson, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004 David Gibson <dwg@au.ibm.com> Dave Engebretsen and Mike
Corrigan {engebret|mikejc}@us.ibm.com
Copyright (C) 2004 David Chaw <david_chaw@adaptec.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2004 Daniel Mack <daniel@qanu.de> and Holger Waechtler
<holger@qanu.de>
Copyright (C) 2004 Compulab Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2004 Clemens Fruhwirth <clemens@endorphin.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (C) 2004 Chris Kennedy <c@groovy.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 Cavium Networks
Copyright (C) 2004 Carl-Daniel Hailfinger
Copyright (C) 2004 Bruno Ducrot <ducrot@poupinou.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004 Boris Hu
Copyright (C) 2004 Benjamin Herrenschmuidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2004 Benjamin Herrenschmuidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org), IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2004 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp. benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2004 Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2004 Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
Copyright (C) 2004 BULL SA.
Copyright (C) 2004 Aurelien Alleaume <slts@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 2004 Ashok Raj <ashok.raj@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Arnd Bergmann (arnd@arndb.de)
Copyright (C) 2004 Arcom Control Systems Ltd <linux@arcom.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Arcom Control Systems
Copyright (C) 2004 Antonio Mancuso <antonio.mancuso@digitaltelevision.it> Amauri
Celani <acelani@essegi.net>
Copyright (C) 2004 Antonino Daplas<adaplas@pol.net> All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2004 Antonino Daplas <adaplas @pol.net>
Copyright (C) 2004 Anton Blanchard, IBM Corp. <anton@samba.org>
Copyright (C) 2004 Antoine Jacquet <royale@zerezo.com>
http://royale.zerezo.com/zr364xx/
Copyright (C) 2004 Anil S Keshavamurthy (anil.s.keshavamurthy@intel.com)
Copyright (C) 2004 Anil S Keshavamurthy <anil.s.keshavamurthy@intel.com> 
Copyright (C) 2004 Anil S Keshavamurthy <anil.s.keshavamurthy@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Andriy Skulysh <askulysh@image.kiev.ua>
Copyright (C) 2004 Andriy Skulysh
Copyright (C) 2004 Andrew de Quincey (wol support)
Copyright (C) 2004 Andrew de Quincey (tuning thread cleanup)
Copyright (C) 2004 Andrew de Quincey <adq_dvb@lidskialf.net>
Copyright (C) 2004 Andrew de Quincey
Copyright (C) 2004 Andreas Monitzer <andy@monitzer.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs
Copyright (C) 2004 Amit S. Kale <amitkale@linsyssoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 Amaury Demol for DiBcom
Copyright (C) 2004 Alexandre d'Alton <alex@alexdalton.org> Jean Delvare
<jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2004 Alex Song
Copyright (C) 2004 Alex Kern <alex.kern@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2004 Alex Aizman
Copyright (C) 2004 Albert Herranz kogiidena
Copyright (C) 2004 Albert Herranz
Copyright (C) 2004 Alan Modra (amodra@au.ibm.com)), IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2004 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 Advanced Micro Devices
Copyright (C) 2004 Adaptec, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004 Adam Litke (agl@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 2004 ATMEL
Copyright (C) 2004 ARM Limited. Written by Deep Blue Solutions Limited.
Copyright (C) 2004 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2004 2005 2006 Michel Xhaard mxhaard@magic.fr
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2013 by Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2010 Vladislav Bolkhovitin <vst@vlnb.net>
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2010 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2010 Ivo van Doorn <IvDoorn@gmail.com>
http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2010 Ivo van Doorn <IvDoorn@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2009 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2009 Ivo van Doorn <IvDoorn@gmail.com>
http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2009 Ivo van Doorn <IvDoorn@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2009 Gertjan van Wingerde <gwingerde@gmail.com>
http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2009 Felix Fietkau <nbd@openwrt.org>
http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2008 by Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2008 Texas Instruments Inc.
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2008 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2008 Nokia Corporation Written by Tuukka Tikkanen
<tuukka.tikkanen@elektrobit.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2007 Texas Instruments.
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2007 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{addtoit,linux.intel}.com)
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2006 rt2x00 SourceForge Project
http://rt2x00.serialmonkey.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2006 Red Hat, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2006 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2006 Mike Christie
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2005, Milton D Miller II, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2005, 2009-2010 Nokia Corporation Written by Tuukka
Tikkanen <tuukka.tikkanen@elektrobit.com> Tony Lindgren, Gordon McNutt and
RidgeRun, Inc
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2005, 2009-2010 Nokia Corporation Written by Tuukka
Tikkanen <tuukka.tikkanen@elektrobit.com>
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2005, 2009 Nokia corporation Written by Tuukka Tikkanen
<tuukka.tikkanen@elektrobit.com> Tony Lindgren, Gordon McNutt and RidgeRun, Inc
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2005 Nokia corporation Written by Tuukka Tikkanen
<tuukka.tikkanen@elektrobit.com> Tony Lindgren, Gordon McNutt and RidgeRun, Inc
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2005 Nokia Corporation Tony Lindgen <tony@atomide.com> and
Tuukka Tikkanen <tuukka.tikkanen@elektrobit.com> Timo Teras
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2005 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved. Elizabeth
Clarke et. al.
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2005 Leonid Stoljar
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2005 Dmitry Yusupov
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2005 Alex Aizman maintained by open-iscsi@googlegroups.com
Copyright (C) 2004 - 2005 Alex Aizman
Copyright (C) 2004	Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2003-5, 2007 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2003-2018 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003-2017 Cavium, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003-2015, 2018-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2003-2015 Chelsio Communications. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003-2015 Broadcom Corporation All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2003-2014, 2018-2022 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2003-2014, 2018-2021 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2003-2014 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited Author: Srinivas
Kandagatla <srinivas.kandagatla@st.com> Contributors: Giuseppe Cavallaro
<peppe.cavallaro@st.com>
Copyright (C) 2003-2014 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited
Copyright (C) 2003-2014 Bernd Porr, mail@berndporr.me.uk
Copyright (C) 2003-2013 STMicroelectronics (R&D) Limited
Copyright (C) 2003-2013 Jozsef Kadlecsik <kadlec@netfilter.org>
Copyright (C) 2003-2013 Altera Corporation All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003-2012 ARM Ltd. Authors:       Catalin Marinas
<catalin.marinas@arm.com> Will Deacon <will.deacon@arm.com>
Copyright (C) 2003-2011 PEAK System-Technik GmbH
Copyright (C) 2003-2011 Jozsef Kadlecsik <kadlec@netfilter.org>
Copyright (C) 2003-2011 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2003-2010 PEAK System-Technik GmbH
Copyright (C) 2003-2010 Julian Anastasov
Copyright (C) 2003-2010 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2003-2009 Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2003-2008, Philipp Reisner <philipp.reisner@linbit.com>.
Copyright (C) 2003-2008, Lars Ellenberg <lars.ellenberg@linbit.com>.
Copyright (C) 2003-2008, LINBIT Information Technologies GmbH.
Copyright (C) 2003-2008 Takahiro Hirofuchi
Copyright (C) 2003-2008 Red Hat, Inc., James Morris <jmorris@redhat.com> Eric
Paris <eparis@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2003-2008 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 2003-2008 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2003-2008 Alan Stern
Copyright (C) 2003-2007 Oliver Endriss <o.endriss@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2003-2007 Micronas
Copyright (C) 2003-2006, Marvell International Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2003-2006, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003-2006 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 2003-2006 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
Copyright (C) 2003-2006 Kristian Hoegsberg <krh@bitplanet.net>
Copyright (C) 2003-2006 Hyok S. Choi <hyok.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2003-2006 Hyok S. Choi
Copyright (C) 2003-2006 David Hollis <dhollis@davehollis.com>
Copyright (C) 2003-2005,2008 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 by David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 SAN People (Pty) Ltd
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 SAN People
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 Pontus Fuchs, Giridhar Pemmasani
http://ndiswrapper.sourceforge.net/
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 PLX Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 Nokia Corporation Written by Juha Yrjölä
<juha.yrjola@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 Matthew Wilcox (willy@infradead.org)
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 Hewlett Packard
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 David Hollis <dhollis@davehollis.com>
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 Dave Boutcher (boutcher@us.ibm.com) IBM Corp. Santiago
Leon (santil@us.ibm.com) IBM Corp. Linda Xie (lxie@us.ibm.com) IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 Benjamin Herrenschmuidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org)
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 Benjamin Herrenschmidt.
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 Ben. Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org)
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 Anton Blanchard and Milton Miller, IBM Corp
Copyright (C) 2003-2005 Alan Stern
Copyright (C) 2003-2004, Paul Clements, SteelEye Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 by Jan-Benedict Glaw <jbglaw@lug-owl.de>
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Venkatesh Pallipadi <venkatesh.pallipadi@intel.com>.
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Russell King, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Robert Schwebel, Benedikt Spranger
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Oleksij Rempel <bug-track@fisher-privat.net> Jean
Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 MontaVista, Software, Inc. by Dale Farnsworth
<dfarnsworth@mvista.com>
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 MontaVista, Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Kevin Thayer <nufan_wfk at yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Ken Chen <kenneth.w.chen@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Intel
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Humboldt Solutions Ltd, adrian@humboldt.co.uk
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Giuliano Pochini <pochini@shiny.it>
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Dennis Noermann <dennis.noermann@noernet.de>
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 David Brownell.
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Chris Kennedy
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Amit S. Kale <amitkale@linsyssoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Alex Woods <linux-dvb@giblets.org> Peter Beutner
<p.beutner@gmx.net>
Copyright (C) 2003-2004 Alex Woods <linux-dvb@giblets.org>
Copyright (C) 2003,4,5 Manfred Spraul
Copyright (C) 2003,2004 Neil Whelchel (koyama@firstlight.net)
Copyright (C) 2003,2004 Krzysztof Benedyczak (golbi@mat.uni.torun.pl) Michal
Wronski (michal.wronski@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2003,2004 John Williams <jwilliams@itee.uq.edu.au>
Copyright (C) 2003,2004 Hewlett-Packard Company
Copyright (C) 2003,2004 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (C) 2003,2004 Eric Biederman (ebiederm@xmission.com)
Copyright (C) 2003, Randy Dunlap <rdunlap@infradead.org>
Copyright (C) 2003, Peter Sadik <peter.sadik@idt.com>
Copyright (C) 2003, Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2003, Duncan Sands, SolNegro, Josep Comas
Copyright (C) 2003, Duncan Sands
Copyright (C) 2003, Daria Phoebe Brashear
Copyright (C) 2003, 2006 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2003, 2005, 2006 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2003, 2005 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2006 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by
David Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004, 2005 Andriy Skulysh
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 gcs - Global Communication & Services GmbH. and
Department of Scientific Computing Paris Lodron University of Salzburg. Hilmar
Linder <hlinder@cosy.sbg.ac.at> and Wolfram Stering <wstering@cosy.sbg.ac.at>
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 SuperH, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Samuel Rydh (samuel@ibrium.se)
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 SUGIOKA Toshinobu
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Richard Curnow
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Reinhard Nissl <rnissl@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 IBM Corp. Ryan S. Arnold (rsa@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Gerd Knorr
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Colin Leroy, Rasmus Rohde, Benjamin Herrenschmidt
Copyright (C) 2003, 2004 Chris Dearman
Copyright (C) 2003, 07 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2003, 07 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2003, 06, 07 by Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2003, 06 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2003, 04, 11 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2003, 04, 07 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2003, 04, 07 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2003, 04, 05 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2003, 04 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2003 by Chuck Lever <cel@netapp.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 by Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC
Copyright (C) 2003 Winfried Ritsch (IEM) Thomas Charbonnel (thomas@undata.org)
Copyright (C) 2003 Vojtech Pavlik <vojtech@suse.cz> SiS Taiwan Daniela Engert
John Fremlin, Manfred Spraul, Dave Morgan, Peter Kjellerstedt L.C. Chang
<lcchang@sis.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2003 Vadim Catana, skystar@moldova.cc
Copyright (C) 2003 Vadim Catana <skystar@moldova.cc>
Copyright (C) 2003 Tresys Technology, LLC
Copyright (C) 2003 Timesys Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2003 TimeSys Corporation
Copyright (C) 2003 Thomas Charbonnel (thomas@undata.org)
Copyright (C) 2003 Takashi Kusuda <kusuda-takashi@hitachi-ul.co.jp>
Copyright (C) 2003 Sylvain Munaut <tnt@246tNt.com> Kjell Claesson
<keyson@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2003 StorLine, Inc <jason@storlink.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2003 Sistina Software.
Copyright (C) 2003 Sistina Software Limited.
Copyright (C) 2003 Sistina Software (UK) Limited.
Copyright (C) 2003 Sistina Software
Copyright (C) 2003 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003 Shane Spencer <shane@bogomip.com> Adrian Yee <brewt-
fujitsu@brewt.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Sean McGoogan (Sean.McGoogan@superh.com)
Copyright (C) 2003 Samuel Rydh (samuel@ibrium.se)
Copyright (C) 2003 SUGIOKA Toshinobu
Copyright (C) 2003 STMicroelectronics Limited
Copyright (C) 2003 SAN People (Pty) Ltd
Copyright (C) 2003 SAN People
Copyright (C) 2003 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 2003 Russell King, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003 Roy Bulter <rbulter@hetnet.nl>
Copyright (C) 2003 Robert Schwebel, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2003 Robert Schwebel <r.schwebel@pengutronix.de>, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2003 Rick Bronson
Copyright (C) 2003 Richard Curnow
Copyright (C) 2003 Red Hat, Inc., James Morris <jmorris@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2003 Red Hat Inc
Copyright (C) 2003 Red Hat <alan@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Randolph Chung <tausq with parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Randolph Chung <tausq at debian . org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Ralph Metzler <rjkm@metzlerbros.de>
Copyright (C) 2003 Ralf Baechle 6/2004
Copyright (C) 2003 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org> 2004-2007 Stanislaw
Skowronek <skylark@unaligned.org> 2009 Johannes Dickgreber <tanzy@gmx.de> 2015
Joshua Kinard <kumba@gentoo.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2003 Peter Milne, D-TACQ Solutions Ltd Peter dot Milne at D hyphen
TACQ dot com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Pavel Machek (pavel@ucw.cz)
Copyright (C) 2003 Pavel Machek
Copyright (C) 2003 Paul Mundt <lethal@linux-sh.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2003 Paul Andreassen <paul@andreassen.com.au>
Copyright (C) 2003 PathScale, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003 PMC-Sierra, Inc., written by Manish Lachwani
Copyright (C) 2003 Oliver Endriss
Copyright (C) 2003 Nokia Corporation Written by Timo Teräs <ext-
timo.teras@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Nokia Corporation Author: Juha Yrjölä <juha.yrjola@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Montavista Software, Inc
Copyright (C) 2003 MontaVista, Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003 MontaVista Software, Inc. Author: George G. Davis
<gdavis@mvista.com> or <source@mvista.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: Jun Sun, jsun@mvista.com or
jsun@junsun.net
Copyright (C) 2003 MontaVista Software (source@mvista.com)
Copyright (C) 2003 Monta Vista Software, Inc.  Nicolas Pitre
Copyright (C) 2003 Mipsys - Benjamin Herrenschmidt
Copyright (C) 2003 Microtronix Datacom Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2003 Michael Hunold <michael@mihu.de>
Copyright (C) 2003 Maxim Krasnyansky <maxk@qualcomm.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Matthias Brukner, Trajet Gmbh, Rebenring 33, 38106
Braunschweig, GERMANY
Copyright (C) 2003 Matjaz Breskvar <phoenix@bsemi.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Mark Studebaker
Copyright (C) 2003 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2003 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 2003 Lineo uSolutions, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003 Linda Xie <lxie@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Ladislav Michl (ladis@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2003 Ladislav Michl
Copyright (C) 2003 Krzysztof Halasa <khc@pm.waw.pl>
Copyright (C) 2003 Krzysztof Benedyczak & Michal Wronski
Copyright (C) 2003 Konrad Eisele <eiselekd@web.de>
Copyright (C) 2003 Kirk Reiser.
Copyright (C) 2003 Kevin Thayer <nufan_wfk@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Keith M Wesolowski
Copyright (C) 2003 Kartikey Mahendra Bhatt <kartik_me@hotmail.com>.
Copyright (C) 2003 Jozsef Kadlecsik <kadlec@netfilter.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Joshua Wise
Copyright (C) 2003 John Williams <jwilliams@itee.uq.edu.au>
Copyright (C) 2003 John Klar <linpvr at projectplasma.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Joerg Dorchain <joerg AT dorchain.net>
Copyright (C) 2003 Jeremy Fitzhardinge <jeremy@goop.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Jens Axboe <axboe@kernel.dk>
Copyright (C) 2003 Jana Saout <jana@saout.de>
Copyright (C) 2003 Jamie Honan
Copyright (C) 2003 James Bottomley <jejb with parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 James Bottomley <jejb at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Intel Corporation Venki Pallipadi
Copyright (C) 2003 Intel Co Suresh Siddha <suresh.b.siddha@intel.com> Fenghua Yu
<fenghua.yu@intel.com> Arun Sharma <arun.sharma@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 IBM.
Copyright (C) 2003 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2003 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Heiko Ronsdorf <hero@ihg.uni-duisburg.de>
Copyright (C) 2003 Guido Guenther <agx@sigxcpu.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Greg Ungerer <gerg@linux-m68k.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 2003 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Georges Menie
Copyright (C) 2003 Geert Uytterhoeven <geert@linux-m68k.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 2003 Frank Mori Hess <fmhess@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2003 Fenghua Yu <fenghua.yu@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Ethan Benson <erbenson@alaska.net>
Copyright (C) 2003 Deep Blue Solutions, Ltd, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd
Copyright (C) 2003 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2003 David Glance <davidgsf@sourceforge.net> 2001-2004 Juergen
Stuber <starblue@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2003 David Glance <advidgsf@sourceforge.net> 2001-2004 Juergen
Stuber <starblue@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2003 David Gibson, IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2003 David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2003 David Borowski.
Copyright (C) 2003 Dave Engebretsen <engebret@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Convergence GmbH
Copyright (C) 2003 Conexant Americas Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003 Coherent Imaging Systems
Copyright (C) 2003 Christoph Hellwig.
Copyright (C) 2003 Christoph Hellwig (hch@lst.de)
Copyright (C) 2003 Carlos O'Donell <carlos at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2003 Bernardo Innocenti <bernie@develer.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Benjamin Herrenschmuidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org)
Copyright (C) 2003 Benjamin Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org)
Copyright (C) 2003 Benedikt Spranger, Pengutronix
Copyright (C) 2003 Ben. Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org)
Copyright (C) 2003 BULL SA.
Copyright (C) 2003 BULL SA
Copyright (C) 2003 Atheros Communications, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2003 Anton Blanchard <anton@au.ibm.com>, IBM
Copyright (C) 2003 Andriy Skulysh
Copyright (C) 2003 Andreas Oberritter <obi@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2003 Al Borchers (alborchers@steinerpoint.com)
Copyright (C) 2003 Agilent Technologies
Copyright (C) 2003 Advanced Micro Devices
Copyright (C) 2003 Adrian Sun (asun@darksunrising.com)
Copyright (C) 2003 Adaptec, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003 ATMEL
Copyright (C) 2003 ATI Inc. <hyu@ati.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 2004 Michel Xhaard mxhaard@magic.fr
Copyright (C) 2003 -- 2004 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2012 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2009 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2009 NetXen, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2008 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2008 Nokia Corporation Author: Juha Yrjölä
<juha.yrjola@nokia.com> Samuel Ortiz <samuel.ortiz@nokia.com> Imre Deak
<imre.deak@nokia.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2008 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2007 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2007 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{addtoit,linux.intel}.com)
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2006 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2005 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2005 Nokia Corporation
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2004, 2006 Tresys Technology, LLC
Copyright (C) 2003 - 2004 Tresys Technology, LLC
Copyright (C) 2003	Michiel Rook <michiel@grendelproject.nl>
Copyright (C) 2002-2020 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 KVASER AB, Sweden. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2002-2014 MEV Ltd. <https://www.mev.co.uk/>
Copyright (C) 2002-2014 ARM Limited.
Copyright (C) 2002-2011 Hugh Dickins.
Copyright (C) 2002-2008, Lars Ellenberg <lars.ellenberg@linbit.com>.
Copyright (C) 2002-2008 Novell/SUSE
Copyright (C) 2002-2008 Krzysztof Halasa <khc@pm.waw.pl>
Copyright (C) 2002-2007 Volkswagen Group Electronic Research
Copyright (C) 2002-2007 Kristian Høgsberg
Copyright (C) 2002-2007 KVASER AB
Copyright (C) 2002-2007 Hewlett-Packard Co Contributed by David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2007 Helge Deller <deller with parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2006 Thibaut VARENE <varenet@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2006 Novell, Inc. Jan Beulich <jbeulich@novell.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2006 Krzysztof Halasa <khc@pm.waw.pl>
Copyright (C) 2002-2006 Kristian Høgsberg
Copyright (C) 2002-2006 Frank Mori Hess <fmhess@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2002-2005 by David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2002-2005 VERITAS Software Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2002-2005 Sam Ravnborg <sam@ravnborg.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2005 Roman Zippel <zippel@linux-m68k.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2005 Pavel Roskin <proski@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2005 Julien Lerouge, 2003-2006 Karol Kozimor
Copyright (C) 2002-2005 Eric Biederman <ebiederm@xmission.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2005 Emmanuel Pacaud <emmanuel.pacaud@univ-poitiers.fr>
Copyright (C) 2002-2005 Dave Jones.
Copyright (C) 2002-2005 Clemens Ladisch.
Copyright (C) 2002-2005 - Tom Zanussi (zanussi@us.ibm.com), IBM Corp
Copyright (C) 2002-2004 by Luca Risolia <luca.risolia@studio.unibo.it>
Copyright (C) 2002-2004 Timesys Corporation
Copyright (C) 2002-2004 Stefan Eletzhofer
Copyright (C) 2002-2004 Sensoray Co., Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002-2004 Rohit Seth <rohit.seth@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2004 John Belmonte
Copyright (C) 2002-2004 Eric Biederman <ebiederm@xmission.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2004 Dave Jones
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 TiVo Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Stephen Rothwell, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Romain Lievin <roms@tilp.info>
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Ralph Metzler <rjkm@metzlerbros.de> Metzler Brothers
Systementwicklung GbR
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Patrick Mochel <mochel@osdl.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Open Source Development Labs
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Maxim Krasnyansky <maxk@qualcomm.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Matthew Wilcox <willy at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Hewlett Packard Co Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Florian Schirmer <jolt@tuxbox.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Fabrizio Gennari <fabrizio.gennari@philips.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Eric Biederman <ebiederm@xmission.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd, all rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 David McCullough <davidm@snapgear.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Dave Jones.
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Dave Jones
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Andreas Oberritter <obi@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2003 Andreas Gruenbacher <agruen@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2002- 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{addtoit,linux.intel}.com)
Copyright (C) 2002,5 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2002,2011 Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
Copyright (C) 2002,2005 by SOMA Networks, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002,2005 SOMA Networks, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002,2004 MARA Systems AB <https://www.marasystems.com> by Henrik
Nordstrom <hno@marasystems.com>
Copyright (C) 2002,2003 by Andreas Gruenbacher <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
Copyright (C) 2002,2003 Takayoshi Kochi (t-kochi@bq.jp.nec.com)
Copyright (C) 2002,2003 Suresh Siddha <suresh.b.siddha@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2002,2003 NEC Corporation
Copyright (C) 2002,2003 Jun Nakajima <jun.nakajima@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2002,2003 Intrinsyc Software
Copyright (C) 2002,2003 Intel Corp. Jun Nakajima <jun.nakajima@intel.com> Suresh
Siddha <suresh.b.siddha@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2002,2003 Frank Mori Hess <fmhess@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2002,2003 Florian Schirmer <jolt@tuxbox.org>
Copyright (C) 2002,2003 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2002,2003 Andi Kleen <ak@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2002,2003 Adaptec, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002,03 NEC Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2002,03 Miles Bader <miles@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2002, Rohit Seth <rohit.seth@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2002, Linus Torvalds.
Copyright (C) 2002, Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 2002, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2002, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 2002, Erich Focht, NEC
Copyright (C) 2002, David McCullough <davidm@snapgear.com> Hyok S. Choi
<hyok.choi@samsung.com>
Copyright (C) 2002, ATI Corp.
Copyright (C) 2002, 2018 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2002, 2017 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2002, 2014 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2002, 2008 by Andreas Mohr <hw7oshyuv3001@sneakemail.com>
Copyright (C) 2002, 2008 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 2002, 2007 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David
Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2002, 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2002, 2006, 2007 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2002, 2006 Ken Chen <kenneth.w.chen@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2002, 2006 Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2002, 2006 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2002, 2005 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2002, 2005 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2002, 2005 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved. Authors:
Carsten Langgaard <carstenl@mips.com> Maciej W. Rozycki <macro@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2002, 2005 - 2011 by Andreas Mohr <andi AT lisas.de>
Copyright (C) 2002, 2004, 2005 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2002, 2004 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2002, 2004 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2006 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2006 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2005, 2008 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2005, 2006 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2005 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2005 Ilya A. Volynets
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2004 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2004 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2004 Dell Inc. by Matt Domsch <Matt_Domsch@dell.com>
Matt Domsch, Andrew Wilks, and Sandeep K. Shandilya Patrick J. LoPresti
<patl@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 2004 Dell Inc. by Matt Domsch <Matt_Domsch@dell.com>
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003, 06, 07 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Philip Pokorny <ppokorny@penguincomputing.com>
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Oracle. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Ladislav Michl (ladis@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 H. Peter Anvin
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (C) 2002, 2003 - Tom Zanussi (zanussi@us.ibm.com), IBM Corp
Copyright (C) 2002 pcHDTV, inc.
Copyright (C) 2002 by Theodore Ts'o
Copyright (C) 2002 by Takashi Iwai.
Copyright (C) 2002 by Ron Minnich <rminnich@lanl.gov>
Copyright (C) 2002 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2002 by Peter Schildmann <peter.schildmann@web.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 by Concurrent Computer Corporation
Copyright (C) 2002 Vivien Chappelier <vivien.chappelier@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2002 Vivien Chappelier
Copyright (C) 2002 USAGI/WIDE Project
Copyright (C) 2002 Trond Myklebust <trond.myklebust@fys.uio.no>
Copyright (C) 2002 Trond Myklebust
Copyright (C) 2002 Toshinobu Sugioka
Copyright (C) 2002 Toshiba Corporation
Copyright (C) 2002 Tobias Hoffmann
Copyright (C) 2002 Thomas Gleixner (tglx@linutronix.de)
Copyright (C) 2002 Thibaut Varene <varenet@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2002 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002 Tapio Laxström (tapio.laxstrom@iptime.fi)
Copyright (C) 2002 Takayoshi Kochi <t-kochi@bq.jp.nec.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 Sun Microsystems, Inc. Tim Hockin <thockin@sun.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Stuart Menefy (stuart.menefy@st.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 Steve Underwood
Copyright (C) 2002 Steve Schmidtke
Copyright (C) 2002 Stefan Eletzhofer <stefan.eletzhofer@eletztrick.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 SnapGear, by Paul Dale <pauli@snapgear.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Sistina Software (UK) Limited.
Copyright (C) 2002 Simon Evans <spse@secret.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 2002 Simon Evans
Copyright (C) 2002 Shane Nay (shane@minirl.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 Sam Creasey <sammy@sammy.net>
Copyright (C) 2002 STMicroelectronics
Copyright (C) 2002 SOMA Networks, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002 SHARP
Copyright (C) 2002 SGI - Silicon Graphics, Inc <linux-xfs@oss.sgi.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Russell King.  Hyok S. Choi
Copyright (C) 2002 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 2002 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2002 Rory Bolt
Copyright (C) 2002 Roman Zippel <zippel@linux-m68k.org>.
Copyright (C) 2002 Roman Zippel <zippel@linux-m68k.org>
Copyright (C) 2002 RidgeRun, Inc. Author: Steve Johnson
Copyright (C) 2002 RidgeRun, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002 Rick Bronson
Copyright (C) 2002 Richard Russon
Copyright (C) 2002 Richard Hirst (rhirst with parisc-linux.org)
Copyright (C) 2002 Richard Henderson.
Copyright (C) 2002 Richard Henderson
Copyright (C) 2002 Red Hat, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Written by David Howells
(dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 Red Hat, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002 Red Hat
Copyright (C) 2002 Randy Dunlap <rdunlap@xenotime.net>
Copyright (C) 2002 Randolph Chung <tausq with parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2002 Randolph Chung <tausq at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2002 Ralph Metzler <rjkm@metzlerbros.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 Ralf Baechle DO1GRB (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 2002 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2002 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2002 Rabeeh Khoury <rabeeh@galileo.co.il> Rabeeh Khoury
<rabeeh@marvell.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Peter Hettkamp <peter.hettkamp@htp-tel.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 Peter Bergner <bergner@vnet.ibm.com>, IBM
Copyright (C) 2002 Pete Zaitcev (zaitcev@yahoo.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 Pete Zaitcev <zaitcev@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 2002 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2002 Paul Mackerras, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2002 Patrick Mansfield
Copyright (C) 2002 Niibe Yutaka
Copyright (C) 2002 NetChip Technology, Inc. (http://www.netchip.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 Neil Brown <neilb@cse.unsw.edu.au>
Copyright (C) 2002 Motorola GSG-China
Copyright (C) 2002 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: jsun@mvista.com or
jsun@junsun.net
Copyright (C) 2002 MontaVista Software Inc. Author: Jun Sun, jsun@mvista.com or
jsun@junsun.net
Copyright (C) 2002 MontaVista Software Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002 MontaVista Software
Copyright (C) 2002 Michael Hillmann <hillmann@syscongroup.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 Maxim Yevtyushkin <max@linuxmedialabs.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Maxim Krasnyansky <maxk@qualcomm.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Matthew Wilcox (willy at parisc-linux.org)
Copyright (C) 2002 Matthew Dharm <mdharm@momenco.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Mark D. Studebaker <mdsxyz123@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
Copyright (C) 2002 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2002 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2002 MEV Ltd. <https://www.mev.co.uk/>
Copyright (C) 2002 M. R. Brown <mrbrown@linux-sh.org>
Copyright (C) 2002 M. R. Brown
Copyright (C) 2002 Lionel Bouton <Lionel.Bouton@inet6.fr>
Copyright (C) 2002 Linus Torvalds.
Copyright (C) 2002 Laurent Pinchart <laurent.pinchart@skynet.be>
Copyright (C) 2002 Laurent Canet <canetl@esiee.fr>
Copyright (C) 2002 Ladislav Michl
Copyright (C) 2002 Kuba Ober (kuba@mareimbrium.org)
Copyright (C) 2002 Kirk Reiser.
Copyright (C) 2002 Khalid Aziz <khalid_aziz@hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Ken Chen <kenneth.w.chen@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 KOBIL Systems GmbH Author: Thomas Wahrenbruch
Copyright (C) 2002 Joachim Wuttke <Joachim.Wuttke@icn.siemens.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 Jenna Hall <jenna.s.hall@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Jeff Dike (jdike@karaya.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 James Simmons <jsimmons@users.sf.net>
Copyright (C) 2002 James Simmons
Copyright (C) 2002 Intrinsyc, Inc. (Frank Becker)
Copyright (C) 2002 Intrinsyc Software Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002 Intel Corporation
Copyright (C) 2002 Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2002 Intel
Copyright (C) 2002 Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 2002 Hiroshi Aono (h-aono@ap.jp.nec.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 Hewlett-Packard Development Group, L.P. Author: Torben
Mathiasen <torben.mathiasen@hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Hewlett-Packard David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Hewlett-Packard Company
Copyright (C) 2002 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Hewlett Packard
Copyright (C) 2002 Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 Frank Mori Hess <fmhess@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2002 Fenghua Yu <fenghua.yu@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Felix Domke <tmbinc@elitedvb.net> Andreas Oberritter
<obi@linuxtv.org>
Copyright (C) 2002 Erich Focht <efocht@ess.nec.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 Embedix, Inc
Copyright (C) 2002 Dominik Brodowski <devel@brodo.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 Dennis Noermann <dennis.noermann@noernet.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 Denis Oliver Kropp <dok@directfb.org>
Copyright (C) 2002 Dell Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2002 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2002 David S. Miller.
Copyright (C) 2002 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com) Pekka Pietikainen
(pp@ee.oulu.fi)
Copyright (C) 2002 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 David S. Miller
Copyright (C) 2002 David McCullough <davidm@snapgear.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 David McCullough
Copyright (C) 2002 David Howells (dhowells@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 David Howells <dhowells@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Dave Engebretsen <engebret@us.ibm.com>, IBM
Copyright (C) 2002 Daniel Vecino Castel <dvecino@able.es>
Copyright (C) 2002 Dag Arne Osvik <osvik@ii.uib.no> 2003 Herbert Valerio Riedel
<hvr@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2002 Dag Arne Osvik <osvik@ii.uib.no>
Copyright (C) 2002 Connect Tech Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (C) 2002 Broadcom, Inc. author: Mark Vandevoorde
Copyright (C) 2002 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2002 Benjamin Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org)
Copyright (C) 2002 Atom Create Engineering Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2002 Anton Blanchard, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2002 Anton Blanchard <anton@au.ibm.com>, IBM
Copyright (C) 2002 Andy Grover <andrew.grover@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Andriy Skulysh
Copyright (C) 2002 Andreas Oberritter <obi@saftware.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
Copyright (C) 2002 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs
Copyright (C) 2002 Andi Kleen
Copyright (C) 2002 Alan Cox <alan@redhat.com> Clear Zhang
<Clear.Zhang@ali.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2002 Al Stone <ahs3@fc.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 AbsoluteValue Systems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2002 ARM Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2002 ARM Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2002 ARM Ltd, All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2002 ARM Limited, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2002 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{addtoit,linux.intel}.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 2003 by MontaVista Software.
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2014, Areca Technology Corporation All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2013 Tensilica, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2012 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2012 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2011 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2010 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2009 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2008 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2008 Jeff Dike (jdike@{addtoit,linux.intel}.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2007 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{linux.intel,addtoit}.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{addtoit,linux.intel}.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{addtoit,linux,intel}.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2006 Atom Create Engineering Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2005, Areca Technology Corporation All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2005, Areca Technology Corporation All rights reserved
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2005 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2005 Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org> and
Markus Demleitner <msdemlei@cl.uni-heidelberg.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2005 Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2004 Dominik Brodowski <linux@brodo.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2003 Dominik Brodowski <linux@brodo.de>
Copyright (C) 2002 - 2003 Dominik Brodowski
Copyright (C) 2002	Gary Brubaker (xavyer@ix.netcom.com)
Copyright (C) 2001-5, B2C2 inc.
Copyright (C) 2001-2022 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2001-2020 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2001-2018 Miklos Szeredi <miklos@szeredi.hu>
Copyright (C) 2001-2016 PaX Team, Bradley Spengler, Open Source Security Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001-2016 Miklos Szeredi <miklos@szeredi.hu>
Copyright (C) 2001-2015 Intel Corporation Author: 2014, 2015 Lv Zheng
<lv.zheng@intel.com> 2006, 2007 Alexey Starikovskiy
<alexey.y.starikovskiy@intel.com> 2006 Denis Sadykov <denis.m.sadykov@intel.com>
2004 Luming Yu <luming.yu@intel.com> 2001, 2002 Andy Grover
<andrew.grover@intel.com> 2001, 2002 Paul Diefenbaugh
<paul.s.diefenbaugh@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2001-2014 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2001-2013 Tensilica Inc. Authors	Victor Prupis
Copyright (C) 2001-2008, Philipp Reisner <philipp.reisner@linbit.com>.
Copyright (C) 2001-2008, Lars Ellenberg <lars.ellenberg@linbit.com>.
Copyright (C) 2001-2008, LINBIT Information Technologies GmbH.
Copyright (C) 2001-2008 Stas Sergeev
Copyright (C) 2001-2008 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2001-2008 Miklos Szeredi <miklos@szeredi.hu>
Copyright (C) 2001-2007 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001-2007 Miklos Szeredi. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2001-2007 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 2001-2006,2008,2013 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (C) 2001-2006 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001-2006 Storlink, Corp.
Copyright (C) 2001-2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2001-2006 PEAK System-Technik GmbH
Copyright (C) 2001-2006 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2001-2005 by Thomas Winischhofer, Vienna, Austria.
Copyright (C) 2001-2005 by Thomas Winischhofer, Vienna, Austria
Copyright (C) 2001-2005 Thomas Winischhofer, Vienna, Austria.
Copyright (C) 2001-2005 Thomas Winischhofer
Copyright (C) 2001-2005 Tensilica Inc. Authors	Christian Zankel, Joe Taylor
Copyright (C) 2001-2005 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001-2005 Stelian Pop <stelian@popies.net>
Copyright (C) 2001-2005 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2001-2005 PPC 64 Team, IBM Corp
Copyright (C) 2001-2004, SnapGear Inc. (www.snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by Thomas Winischhofer, Vienna, Austria
Copyright (C) 2001-2004 by David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Stony Brook University
Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Stelian Pop <stelian@popies.net>
Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Peter Osterlund <petero2@telia.com>
Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Paul Mackerras <paulus@au.ibm.com>, IBM
Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Jes Sorensen, Wild Open Source Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 2001-2004 FarSite Communications Ltd. www.farsite.co.uk
Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Aurelien Jarno <aurelien@aurel32.net> Aurelien Jarno
<aurelien@aurel32.net> Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2001-2004 Amit S. Kale
Copyright (C) 2001-2003, SnapGear Inc. (www.snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Stony Brook University
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Stelian Pop <stelian@popies.net>
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Sistina Software (UK) Limited.
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Saito.K & Jeanne
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Russell King, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Patrick Mochel
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Liam Davies (ldavies@agile.tv)
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Jochen Eisinger <jochen@penguin-breeder.org>
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Ivan Martinez <imr@oersted.dtu.dk>
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Ilya Volynets
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Grant Grundler <grundler with parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Frank Mori Hess <fmhess@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Andreas Gruenbacher, <agruen@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2001-2003 Andreas Gruenbacher <agruen@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2001-2002, SnapGear Inc. (www.snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Will Dyson <will_dyson@pobox.com>
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Thomas Bogendoerfer <tsbogend@alpha.franken.de>
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Sistina Software (UK) Limited.
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Ryan Bradetich <rbrad at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org> Jose Orlando
Pereira <jop@di.uminho.pt>
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Marcel Holtmann <marcel@holtmann.org>
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Inventel Systemes Written 2001-2002 by David Libault
<david.libault@inventel.fr>
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Inventel Systemes Written 2001-2002 by
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Greg Kroah-Hartman
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Convergence Integrated Media GmbH ralph@convergence.de>,
holger@convergence.de>, js@convergence.de>
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Convergence Integrated Media GmbH Holger Waechtler
<holger@convergence.de>
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Benjamin Herrenschmidt
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Antefacto Ltd, 181 Parnell St, Dublin 1, Ireland.
Copyright (C) 2001-2002 Alcôve <www.alcove.com>
Copyright (C) 2001-2002	Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 2001-2002	Andre Hedrick <andre@linux-ide.org>
Copyright (C) 2001,2005 IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2001,2004 Grant Grundler <grundler@parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2001,2003,2004 Dell <Matt_Domsch@dell.com>
Copyright (C) 2001,2003 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 2001,2002,2005 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001,2002,2004 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001,2002,2003,2004 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001,2002,2003 Frank Mori Hess <fmhess@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2001,2002,2003 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001,2002 Richard Russon <ldm@flatcap.org>
Copyright (C) 2001,2002 Paul Diefenbaugh <paul.s.diefenbaugh@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2001,2002 Networks Associates Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001,2002 Jakob Kemi <jakob.kemi@telia.com>
Copyright (C) 2001,2002 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2001,2002 Frank Mori Hess <fmhess@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2001,2002 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs
Copyright (C) 2001,2002 Andi Kleen <ak@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2001,2002	Simon Evans <spse@secret.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 2001,2002	NEC Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001,2002	Miles Bader <miles@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2001,02,03 NEC Electronics Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001,02,03 Miles Bader <miles@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2001,...,2009 Davide Libenzi
Copyright (C) 2001,...,2006 Davide Libenzi
Copyright (C) 2001, Alcatel
Copyright (C) 2001, 2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2001, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2001, 2007, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2001, 2006, 2008 MontaVista Software, <source@mvista.com>
Copyright (C) 2001, 2006 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001, 2004-2005 Intel Corp Rohit Seth <rohit.seth@intel.com>
Suresh Siddha <suresh.b.siddha@intel.com> Gordon Jin <gordon.jin@intel.com>
Ashok Raj <ashok.raj@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2001, 2004, 2011, 2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001, 2004, 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2001, 2004 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001, 2003 Steve Underwood, 2007 David Rowe
Copyright (C) 2001, 2003 Rusty Russell IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2001, 2003 Rusty Russell
Copyright (C) 2001, 2003 Ladislav Michl (ladis@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2001, 2003 Ladislav Michl
Copyright (C) 2001, 2003 Keith M Wesolowski
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, MontaVista Software Inc. Author: Jun Sun,
jsun@mvista.com or jsun@junsun.net
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2003, 2007, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2003 by Liam Davies (ldavies@agile.tv)
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2003 YOKOTA Hiroshi <yokota@netlab.is.tsukuba.ac.jp>
GOTO Masanori <gotom@debian.or.jp>, <gotom@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2003 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2003 Patrick Mochel
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2003 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2003 Liam Davies (ldavies@agile.tv)
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2003 Jeff Garzik (jgarzik@pobox.com)
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2003 Frank Mori Hess <fmhess@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002, 2003 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Sistina Software (UK) Limited.
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Sistina Software
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Ryan Holm <ryan.holmQVist@idt.com>
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Paul Diefenbaugh <paul.s.diefenbaugh@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Niibe Yutaka
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 M. R. Brown
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Jeff Dike (jdike@karaya.com)
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Frank Mori Hess <fmhess@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Frank Mori Hess
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Andy Grover <andrew.grover@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Andreas Dilger <adilger@clusterfs.com>
Copyright (C) 2001, 2002 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs.
Copyright (C) 2001, 06 by Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2001 convergence integrated media GmbH
Copyright (C) 2001 by Stanislav Brabec <utx@penguin.cz>
Copyright (C) 2001 by Liam Davies (ldavies@agile.tv)
Copyright (C) 2001 by Ladislav Michl
Copyright (C) 2001 by Jiun-Jie Huang <huangjj@genesyslogic.com.tw>
Copyright (C) 2001 by James.Bottomley@HansenPartnership.com
Copyright (C) 2001 by Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 by Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 by Andreas Gruenbacher <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 Wolfgang Scherr <scherr@net4you.at>
Copyright (C) 2001 WireX Communications, Inc <chris@wirex.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Will Dyson (will_dyson at pobox.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 Will Dyson (will@cs.earlham.edu)
Copyright (C) 2001 Will Dyson <will_dyson@pobox.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Will Dyson <will_dyson@pobox.com
Copyright (C) 2001 Vic Phillips, Microtronix Datacom Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2001 Vic Phillips <vic@microtronix.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Vic Phillips
Copyright (C) 2001 Utz-Uwe Haus <haus@uuhaus.de>
Copyright (C) 2001 Todd Inglett, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001 Tim Waugh <twaugh@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Thomas Bogendoerfer <tsbogend@alpha.franken.de>
Copyright (C) 2001 Thomas Bogendoerfer <tsbogend at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 Thiemo Seufer.
Copyright (C) 2001 Tensilica, Inc. by Kevin Chea Optimized by Joe Taylor
Copyright (C) 2001 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 Takayoshi Kochi <t-kochi@bq.jp.nec.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Takashi Oe
Copyright (C) 2001 Sysgo Real-Time Solutions GmbH
Copyright (C) 2001 Sven Luther, <luther@dpt-info.u-strasbg.fr>
Copyright (C) 2001 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 Steven J. Hill (sjhill@realitydiluted.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 Steve Underwood and 2007-2008 David Rowe
Copyright (C) 2001 Steve Underwood and 2007 David Rowe
Copyright (C) 2001 Steve Underwood
Copyright (C) 2001 Stefan Gmeiner <riddlebox@freesurf.ch>
Copyright (C) 2001 Standard Microsystems Corporation Developed by Simple Network
Magic Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001 Sistina Software (UK) Limited.
Copyright (C) 2001 Sistina Software (UK) Limited
Copyright (C) 2001 Simon Huggins
Copyright (C) 2001 Silicon Graphics, Inc. (Trust Technology Group)
Copyright (C) 2001 SGI - Silicon Graphics, Inc <linux-xfs@oss.sgi.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Rusty Russell.
Copyright (C) 2001 Rusty Russell, 2002, 2010 Rusty Russell IBM.
Copyright (C) 2001 Rusty Russell, 2002 Rusty Russell IBM.
Copyright (C) 2001 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 2001 Russell King, Andi Kleen.
Copyright (C) 2001 Russell King, All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2001 Russell King, All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2001 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2001 Ronny Strutz <3des@elitedvb.de>
Copyright (C) 2001 Romain Dolbeau <romain@dolbeau.org>.
Copyright (C) 2001 Romain Dolbeau <dolbeau@irisa.fr>
Copyright (C) 2001 Robert Schwebel <robert@schwebel.de>
Copyright (C) 2001 Ridgerun,Inc (glonnon@ridgerun.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 RidgeRun, Inc. Greg Lonnon <glonnon@ridgerun.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 RidgeRun, Inc. Author: RidgeRun, Inc. Greg Lonnon
glonnon@ridgerun.com or info@ridgerun.com
Copyright (C) 2001 RidgeRun, Inc. Author: RidgeRun, Inc. Greg Lonnon
(glonnon@ridgerun.com) or info@ridgerun.com
Copyright (C) 2001 RidgeRun, Inc. Author: RidgeRun, Inc. Greg Lonnon
<glonnon@ridgerun.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 RidgeRun, Inc. Author: Greg Lonnon <glonnon@ridgerun.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 RidgeRun, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 RidgeRun, Inc (glonnon@ridgerun.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 Richard Zidlicky <rz@linux-m68k.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 Richard Hirst <rhirst at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 Randolph Chung <tausq@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 Randolph Chung <tausq at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 Ralph Metzler for convergence integrated media GmbH
Copyright (C) 2001 Ralph Metzler <ralph@convergence.de> Marcus Metzler
<marcus@convergence.de> for convergence integrated media GmbH
Copyright (C) 2001 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2001 REINER SCT Author: Matthias Bruestle
Copyright (C) 2001 Peter Bergner.
Copyright (C) 2001 Peter Bergner, IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2001 Peter Bergner
Copyright (C) 2001 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2001 Paul Mackerras <paulus@au.ibm.com>, IBM
Copyright (C) 2001 Paul Diefenbaugh <paul.s.diefenbaugh@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Paul Bame <bame at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 Patrick Mochel <mochel@osdl.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 PPC64 Team, IBM Corp
Copyright (C) 2001 PPC 64 Team, IBM Corp
Copyright (C) 2001 NxtWave Communications, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 Niibe Yutaka & Kaz Kojima
Copyright (C) 2001 Networks Associates Technology, Inc <ssmalley@nai.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 NEC Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001 MontaVista Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 Momchil Velikov
Copyright (C) 2001 Ming Lei <ming.lei@canonical.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Miles Bader <miles@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 Mike Corrigan IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001 Mike Corrigan & Dave Engebretsen, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001 Mike Corrigan & Dave Engebretsen IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001 Michael Ashley <m.ashley@unsw.edu.au>
Copyright (C) 2001 Matthieu Delahaye <delahaym at esiee.fr>
Copyright (C) 2001 Matthew Wilcox (willy at parisc-linux.org)
Copyright (C) 2001 Matthew Wilcox <willy at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 Matthew Wilcox <matthew@wil.cx>
Copyright (C) 2001 Matthew Wilcox
Copyright (C) 2001 Massimo Dal Zotto <dz@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 Mark Langsdorf (mark.langsdorf@amd.com) Sysgo Real-Time
Solutions GmbH
Copyright (C) 2001 Manfred Spraul ethtool support (jgarzik)
Copyright (C) 2001 MandrakeSoft S.A.
Copyright (C) 2001 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2001 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 M. R. Brown
Copyright (C) 2001 Lineo, Inc. <www.lineo.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Lineo
Copyright (C) 2001 Lennert Buytenhek (buytenh@gnu.org) and James Leu
(jleu@mindspring.net).
Copyright (C) 2001 Lennert Buytenhek (buytenh@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 2001 Laurent Pinchart <lpinchart@freegates.be>
Copyright (C) 2001 Ken Hill (khill@microtronix.com) Vic Phillips
(vic@microtronix.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 Keith M Wesolowski
Copyright (C) 2001 Kaz Kojima
Copyright (C) 2001 Kanoj Sarcar
Copyright (C) 2001 Junichi Morita <jun1m@mars.dti.ne.jp>
Copyright (C) 2001 Jun Nakajima <jun.nakajima@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Jens Axboe <axboe@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2001 Jens Axboe <axboe@kernel.dk>
Copyright (C) 2001 Jenna Hall <jenna.s.hall@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Jeff Wiedemeier (Compaq Computer Corporation)
Copyright (C) 2001 Jeff Garzik (jgarzik@pobox.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 Jeff Dike (jdike@karaya.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 Jean Tourrilhes, HP Labs
Copyright (C) 2001 Jean Tourrilhes <jt AT hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Jean Tourrilhes
Copyright (C) 2001 Jan-Benedict Glaw <jbglaw@lug-owl.de>
Copyright (C) 2001 James.Bottomley@HansenPartnership.com
Copyright (C) 2001 James Morris <jmorris@intercode.com.au>
Copyright (C) 2001 Ivan Martinez <ivanmr@altavista.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Intersil Americas Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 Intel
Copyright (C) 2001 Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 2001 Ian da Silva, Jeremy Siegel
Copyright (C) 2001 IBM. Dave Engebretsen, Peter Bergner, and Mike Corrigan
{engebret|bergner|mikec}@us.ibm.com
Copyright (C) 2001 IBM.
Copyright (C) 2001 IBM Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2001 IBM Corp.
Copyright (C) 2001 IBM
Copyright (C) 2001 Holger Waechtler for Convergence Integrated Media GmbH Marko
Kohtala <marko.kohtala@luukku.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Hewlett-Packard (Paul Bame) <bame@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 Hewlett-Packard (Grant Grundler)
Copyright (C) 2001 Hewlett-Packard <bame@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 Hewlett-Packard
Copyright (C) 2001 Helge Deller (deller a parisc-linux org)
Copyright (C) 2001 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Greg Banks <gnb@alphalink.com.au>
Copyright (C) 2001 Grant Grundler (Hewlett Packard)
Copyright (C) 2001 Grant Grundler
Copyright (C) 2001 Georges Menie, Ken Desmet
Copyright (C) 2001 Fred Lewis <frederick.v.lewis@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Frank Mori Hess <fmhess@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2001 Florian Lohoff (flo@rfc822.org)
Copyright (C) 2001 FarSite Communications Ltd. www.farsite.co.uk
Copyright (C) 2001 Dustin McIntire
Copyright (C) 2001 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd. Catalin Marinas
Copyright (C) 2001 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2001 David J. Mckay (david.mckay@st.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 David A. Hinds -- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
Copyright (C) 2001 Dave Kennedy
Copyright (C) 2001 Dave Engebretsen, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001 Dave Engebretsen IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001 Dave Engebretsen & Todd Inglett IBM Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2001 Daniel Barlow <dan AT telent.net>
Copyright (C) 2001 Daniel Barlow
Copyright (C) 2001 Dan Malek (dmalek@jlc.net)
Copyright (C) 2001 Cypress Semiconductor Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 Convergence integrated media GmbH Ralph Metzler
<ralph@convergence.de>
Copyright (C) 2001 Convergence Integrated Media GmbH
Copyright (C) 2001 Compaq Computer Corporation
Copyright (C) 2001 Christoph Hellwig <hch@infradead.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 Christoph Hellwig
Copyright (C) 2001 Chris Gauthron
Copyright (C) 2001 Bradley D. LaRonde <brad@ltc.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 Brad Hards (bhards@bigpond.net.au)
Copyright (C) 2001 Brad Boyer (flar@allandria.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 Benjamin Herrenschmidt
Copyright (C) 2001 Ben. Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org)
Copyright (C) 2001 Arnaud Westenberg
Copyright (C) 2001 Arcom Control System Ltd
Copyright (C) 2001 Antonino Daplas<adaplas@pol.net> All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 2001 Anton Blanchard <anton@au.ibm.com>, IBM
Copyright (C) 2001 Andrea Arcangeli <andrea@suse.de> SuSE
Copyright (C) 2001 Altera Corporation Hyok S. Choi, 2003.
Copyright (C) 2001 Allan Willcox <allanwillcox@ozemail.com.au>
Copyright (C) 2001 Alan Modra <amodra at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 ARM Limited, by David A Rusling, Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
Russell King.
Copyright (C) 2001 ARM Limited, by David A Rusling, Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2001 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2021 Douglas Gilbert
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2015 Intel Corp. Author: Andy Grover
<andrew.grover@intel.com> Author: Paul Diefenbaugh
<paul.s.diefenbaugh@intel.com> Author: Rafael J. Wysocki
<rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2013 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2012 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2012 Paul Mundt <lethal@linux-sh.org>
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2010 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2009 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2008 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2008 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2008 Jeff Dike (jdike@{addtoit,linux.intel}.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2007 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2007 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{linux.intel,addtoit}.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{addtoit,linux.intel}.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2006 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2006 Paul Mundt
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2005 Tensilica, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2005 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2003 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2003 Sistina Software (UK) Limited.
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2003 Sistina Software
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2003 Jeff Dike (jdike@addtoit.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2002 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 2001 - 2002 Ganesh Varadarajan <ganesh@veritas.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2022 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2000-2018, VMware, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 2000-2016 Broadcom Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2000-2010 Steven J. Hill <sjhill@realitydiluted.com> David
Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org> Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2000-2008, Willy Tarreau <w@1wt.eu>
Copyright (C) 2000-2008 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000-2008 Krzysztof Halasa <khc@pm.waw.pl>
Copyright (C) 2000-2006 Tigran Aivazian <aivazian.tigran@gmail.com> 2006 Shaohua
Li <shaohua.li@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2006 Tigran Aivazian <aivazian.tigran@gmail.com> 2006
Shaohua Li <shaohua.li@intel.com> 2013-2016     Borislav Petkov <bp@alien8.de>
Copyright (C) 2000-2005 by David Brownell <dbrownell@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2000-2005 by David Brownell
Copyright (C) 2000-2005 Netfilter Core Team <coreteam@netfilter.org>
Copyright (C) 2000-2004 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2000-2004 Netfilter Core Team <coreteam@netfilter.org>
Copyright (C) 2000-2004 Netfilter Core Team <coreteam <at> netfilter.org>
Copyright (C) 2000-2004 Neil Brown
Copyright (C) 2000-2003 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 2000-2003 Paul Bame <bame at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2000-2003 Krzysztof Halasa <khc@pm.waw.pl>
Copyright (C) 2000-2003 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2000-2003 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd
Copyright (C) 2000-2003 David McCullough <davidm@snapgear.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Toshiba Corporation
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Russell King modification for nommu, Hyok S. Choi, 2004
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Mark Lord <mlord@pobox.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Lineo by Stuart Lynne, Tom Rushworth, and Bruce Balden
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Joakim Axelsson <gozem@linux.nu> Patrick Schaaf
<bof@bof.de> Martin Josefsson <gandalf@wlug.westbo.se>
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Joakim Axelsson <gozem@linux.nu> Patrick Schaaf
<bof@bof.de>
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 J.I. Lee <jung-ik.lee@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Inside Out Networks, All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Inside Out Networks
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Hewlett-Packard (John Marvin)
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2000-2002 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs
Copyright (C) 2000-2001, Lineo Inc. (www.lineo.com)
Copyright (C) 2000-2001, 2003-2004 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2001, 2003 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian
<eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 by Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 VERITAS Software Corporation.
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Toshiba Corporation
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Richard Hirst <rhirst with parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Ralph Metzler <ralph@convergence.de> Marcus Metzler
<marcus@convergence.de>
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Qualcomm Incorporated
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Marcus Metzler & Ralph Metzler for convergence
integrated media GmbH
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 John Marvin <jsm at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Hewlett-Packard (John Marvin)
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Hewlett Packard Company
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Gillem <htoa@gmx.net>
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd
Copyright (C) 2000-2001 Deep Blue Solutions
Copyright (C) 2000-2001	Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 2000,2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved. Carsten
Langgaard <carstenl@mips.com> Steven J. Hill <sjhill@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2000,2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved. Authors:
Carsten Langgaard <carstenl@mips.com> Steven J. Hill <sjhill@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2000,2003 Grant Grundler (grundler at parisc-linux.org)
Copyright (C) 2000,2002 Stephen Rothwell
Copyright (C) 2000,2002 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 2000,2001,2004 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2000,2001,2002,2003,2004 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2000,2001,2002 Stephen Rothwell
Copyright (C) 2000,2001,2002 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000,2001,2002	Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs (x86-64 port)
Copyright (C) 2000,2001 J.I. Lee <jung-ik.lee@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2000,2001 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 2000,2001	Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs
Copyright (C) 2000, Rohit Seth <rohit.seth@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2000, Lineo (www.lineo.com) Yaroslav Vinogradov
yaroslav.vinogradov@freescale.com
Copyright (C) 2000, Lineo (www.lineo.com)
Copyright (C) 2000, Goutham Rao <goutham.rao@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2000, David Gibson, Linuxcare Australia.
Copyright (C) 2000, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2000, 2007 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 2000, 2004, 2021 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2000, 2004, 2005 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Authors: Carsten Langgaard <carstenl@mips.com> Maciej W. Rozycki
<macro@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2004 Intel Corp Rohit Seth <rohit.seth@intel.com> Suresh
Siddha <suresh.b.siddha@intel.com> Gordon Jin <gordon.jin@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2000, 2003 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2000, 2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2003 Brent Baccala <baccala@freesoft.org>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2002-2003 Intel Co Asit Mallick <asit.k.mallick@intel.com>
Suresh Siddha <suresh.b.siddha@intel.com> Kenneth Chen
<kenneth.w.chen@intel.com> Fenghua Yu <fenghua.yu@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2002-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co. David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2002-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2002, 2003, 2005 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2000, 2002, 2003 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2000, 2002, 2003 Jeff Dike (jdike@karaya.com)
Copyright (C) 2000, 2002 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2000, 2002 Jeff Dike (jdike@karaya.com)
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2004 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2003 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2005, 2020 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2005 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2007 Maciej W. Rozycki
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002 Jeff Dike (jdike@karaya.com)
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002 Ingo Molnar Designed by David S. Miller, Alexey
Kuznetsov and Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 2002 Andi Kleen SuSE Labs
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001, 06 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 by Nicolas Pitre
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Ralf Baechle <ralf@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Paolo Alberelli
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Lineo, by David McCullough <davidm@lineo.com>
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Keith M Wesolowski
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Kanoj Sarcar
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Jeff Dike (jdike@karaya.com)
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Gary Brubaker (xavyer@ix.netcom.com)
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2000, 2001 Broadcom Corporation
Copyright (C) 2000, 1 Tim Waugh <twaugh@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2000, 07 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000, 05 by Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 2000 by Tim Waugh
Copyright (C) 2000 by Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000 by Massimo Piccioni <dafastidio@libero.it>
Copyright (C) 2000 by Colin Ngam
Copyright (C) 2000 by Bart Hartgers <bart@etpmod.phys.tue.nl>, Jaroslav Kysela
<perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (C) 2000 by Andreas Gruenbacher <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
Copyright (C) 2000 Yaegashi Takeshi
Copyright (C) 2000 YAEGASHI Takeshi Hitachi
Copyright (C) 2000 YAEGASHI Takeshi
Copyright (C) 2000 Wolfgang Grandegger (wolfgang@ces.ch)
Copyright (C) 2000 William Greathouse (wgreathouse@smva.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 Vinh Truong (vinh.truong@eng.sun.com) VT
Copyright (C) 2000 VA Linux Co
Copyright (C) 2000 Uros Bizjak <uros@kss-loka.si>
Copyright (C) 2000 Ulf Carlsson
Copyright (C) 2000 Trond Myklebust
Copyright (C) 2000 Tilmann Bitterberg tilmann@bitterberg.de)
Copyright (C) 2000 Thomas Sailer (sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch)
Copyright (C) 2000 Takaya Kinjo <t-kinjo@tc4.so-net.ne.jp>
Copyright (C) 2000 Takashi iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2000 Takashi YOSHII
Copyright (C) 2000 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2000 Sugioka Toshinobu.
Copyright (C) 2000 Stuart Menefy
Copyright (C) 2000 Steven J. Hill (sjhill@realitydiluted.com) 2002-2006 Thomas
Gleixner (tglx@linutronix.de)
Copyright (C) 2000 Steve Hill (sjhill@cotw.com) Rob Scott
(rscott@mtrob.fdns.net)
Copyright (C) 2000 Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc. Written by Ulf Carlsson
(ulfc@engr.sgi.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc. Paul M. Antoine, 1996. Kevin D.
Kissell, kevink@mips.com and Carsten Langgaard, carstenl@mips.com
Copyright (C) 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000 Serguei Miridonov <mirsev@cicese.mx>
Copyright (C) 2000 Sam Creasey <sammy@sammy.net>
Copyright (C) 2000 Sam Creasey
Copyright (C) 2000 Russell King
Copyright (C) 2000 RidgeRun, Inc. Author: RidgeRun, Inc. glonnon@ridgerun.com,
skranz@ridgerun.com, stevej@ridgerun.com
Copyright (C) 2000 RidgeRun, Inc. Author: RidgeRun, Inc. Greg Lonnon
glonnon@ridgerun.com or info@ridgerun.com
Copyright (C) 2000 RidgeRun, Inc. Author: Greg Lonnon <glonnon@ridgerun.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Richard Hirst <rhirst with parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2000 Ralph Metzler <ralph@convergence.de> Marcus Metzler
<marcus@convergence.de> for convergence integrated media GmbH
Copyright (C) 2000 Ralph Metzler & Marcus Metzler for convergence integrated
media GmbH
Copyright (C) 2000 Qlogic Corporation www.qlogic.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 Qlogic Corporation (www.qlogic.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 Philipp Rumpf (prumpf@tux.org)
Copyright (C) 2000 Philipp Rumpf <prumpf@tux.org>.
Copyright (C) 2000 Philipp Rumpf <prumpf@tux.org> 28 Dec 1997 by Geert
Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 2000 Philipp Rumpf <prumpf@tux.org>
Copyright (C) 2000 Philipp Rumpf <prumpf with tux.org>
Copyright (C) 2000 Philipp Rumpf
Copyright (C) 2000 Philip Edelbrock <phil@stimpy.netroedge.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Peter Berger (pberger@brimson.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 2000 Pavel Machek <pavel@suse.cz>
Copyright (C) 2000 Oleg Drokin <green@crimea.edu>
Copyright (C) 2000 Niibe Yutaka
Copyright (C) 2000 Netgem S.A. Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
Copyright (C) 2000 Michael Ang <mang with subcarrier.org>
Copyright (C) 2000 Matthew Wilcox (willy a debian . org)
Copyright (C) 2000 Matthew Wilcox <matthew@wil.cx>
Copyright (C) 2000 Martin K Petersen <mkp at mkp.net>
Copyright (C) 2000 Markus Kempf <kempf@matsci.uni-sb.de>
Copyright (C) 2000 Marcus Metzler <marcus@convergence.de> Ralph Metzler
<ralph@convergence.de> for convergence integrated media GmbH
Copyright (C) 2000 Marcus Metzler <marcus@convergence.de> Ralph Metzler
<ralph@convergence.de> Holger Waechtler <holger@convergence.de> Andre Draszik
<ad@convergence.de> for convergence integrated media GmbH
Copyright (C) 2000 Marc Boucher <marc@mbsi.ca>
Copyright (C) 2000 Manfred Spraul
Copyright (C) 2000 MIPS Technologies, Inc. written by Carsten Langgaard,
carstenl@mips.com
Copyright (C) 2000 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2000 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000 Linuxcare, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000 Linus Torvalds. 2000 Transmeta Corp. 2000-2001 Christoph
Rohland 2000-2001 SAP AG 2002 Red Hat Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000 Linus Torvalds. 2000 Transmeta Corp.
Copyright (C) 2000 Lineo Inc. (www.lineo.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 Kazumoto Kojima
Copyright (C) 2000 Karsten Keil <kkeil@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2000 John Marvin <jsm at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2000 John Marvin
Copyright (C) 2000 John G Dorsey <john+@cs.cmu.edu>
Copyright (C) 2000 Jim Pick <jim@jimpick.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Jens Axboe <axboe@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2000 Jeff Wiedemeier (Compaq Computer Corporation)
Copyright (C) 2000 Jeff Dike (jdike@karaya.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 James Simmons (jsimmons@linux-fbdev.org)
Copyright (C) 2000 Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2000 Intel
Copyright (C) 2000 Inside Out Networks, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000 Inside Out Networks, All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 2000 Imagination Technologies Ltd
Copyright (C) 2000 IBM Corporation Author(s): DJ Barrow
(djbarrow@de.ibm.com,barrow_dj@yahoo.com) William Stearns <wstearns@pobox.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 2000 Holger Waechtler <holger@convergence.de> for convergence
integrated media GmbH
Copyright (C) 2000 Hewlett-Packard Co.
Copyright (C) 2000 Hewlett-Packard Co, Linuxcare Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000 Hewlett-Packard Co
Copyright (C) 2000 Hewlett-Packard (John Marvin)
Copyright (C) 2000 Hewlett Packard (Paul Bame bame@puffin.external.hp.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 Hewlett Packard (Grant Grundler)
Copyright (C) 2000 Hermann Jung <hej@odn.de>
Copyright (C) 2000 Harald Koerfgen
Copyright (C) 2000 Greg Banks, Mitch Davis
Copyright (C) 2000 Grant Grundler, Hewlett-Packard
Copyright (C) 2000 Grant Grundler <grundler with parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 2000 Goutham Rao <goutham.rao@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Gerhard Tonn (ton@de.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl> Philip Edelbrock
<phil@netroedge.com> Stephen Rousset <stephen.rousset@rocketlogix.com> Dan Eaton
<dan.eaton@rocketlogix.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000 Franz Sirl.
Copyright (C) 2000 Frank Mori Hess <fmhess@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (C) 2000 Eric Youngdale,
Copyright (C) 2000 Don Dugger <n0ano@valinux.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd. Hyok S. Choi, 2003.
Copyright (C) 2000 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2000 Deep Blue Solutions Ltd
Copyright (C) 2000 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 David Kennedy <dkennedy with linuxcare.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 David Huggins-Daines <dhd@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2000 David Huggins-Daines <dhd with pobox.org>
Copyright (C) 2000 David Howells
Copyright (C) 2000 David Gibson, Linuxcare Australia.
Copyright (C) 2000 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 2000 Dave Kennedy
Copyright (C) 2000 Damjan Lampret
Copyright (C) 2000 Crossnet Co. <info@crossnet.co.jp>
Copyright (C) 2000 Chris R. Baugher <baugher@enteract.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Chen-Yuan Wu <gwu@esoft.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Benjamin Herrenschmidt
Copyright (C) 2000 Atom Create Engineering Co., Ltd.
Copyright (C) 2000 Asit Mallick <Asit.K.Mallick@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Anton Blanchard (anton@samba.org)
Copyright (C) 2000 Anton Blanchard (anton@linuxcare.com.au)
Copyright (C) 2000 Anton Blanchard (anton@linuxcare.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 Ani Joshi <ajoshi@unixbox.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Andrew Tridgell <tridge@valinux.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Andrew Tridgell <tridge@samba.org>
Copyright (C) 2000 Andrew Henroid
Copyright (C) 2000 Andrea Arcangeli <andrea@suse.de> SuSE
Copyright (C) 2000 Al Borchers (borchers@steinerpoint.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 Al Borchers (alborchers@steinerpoint.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 Al Borchers <borchers@steinerpoint.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Abramo Bagnara <abramo@alsa-project.org>
Copyright (C) 2000 ARM Limited, Deep Blue Solutions Ltd. Hyok S. Choi, 2004.
Copyright (C) 2000 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 2000 AG Electronics
Copyright (C) 2000 2001, The Delft University of Technology
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2022, Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2009 Stuart Menefy
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2008 Jeff Dike (jdike@{addtoit,linux.intel}.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike{addtoit,linux.intel}.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{linux.intel,addtoit}.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2007 Jeff Dike (jdike@{addtoit,linux.intel}.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2006 Krzysztof Halasa <khc@pm.waw.pl>
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2003 Jeff Dike (jdike@addtoit.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2001 by Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2001 by Kanoj Sarcar (kanoj@sgi.com)
Copyright (C) 2000 - 2001 YAEGASHI Takeshi
Copyright (C) 2000	Andre Hedrick <andre@suse.com>
Copyright (C) 199x the Anonymous
Copyright (C) 1999-2020 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 1999-2019 Alibaba Group Holding Limited. by: Shile Zhang
<shile.zhang@linux.alibaba.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2018 Tigran Aivazian <aivazian.tigran@gmail.com> by Andrew
Stribblehill <ads@wompom.org> 2005
Copyright (C) 1999-2018 Tigran Aivazian <aivazian.tigran@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2012 the contributors
Copyright (C) 1999-2010 3ware Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999-2009 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999-2009 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 1999-2008, Philipp Reisner <philipp.reisner@linbit.com>.
Copyright (C) 1999-2008, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 1999-2008, Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2008 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999-2007, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 1999-2007, Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2007 by Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 1999-2007 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999-2007 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 1999-2007 Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 1999-2006 Tensilica Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999-2006 Moxa Technologies (support@moxa.com).
Copyright (C) 1999-2006 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de> (07-13-1999)
Copyright (C) 1999-2005, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 1999-2005 Krzysztof Halasa <khc@pm.waw.pl>
Copyright (C) 1999-2005 James Simmons <jsimmons@www.infradead.org>
Copyright (C) 1999-2005 Igor Pavlov
Copyright (C) 1999-2005 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2005 - Karim Yaghmour (karim@opersys.com)
Copyright (C) 1999-2004, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 1999-2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 1999-2004 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2003, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 1999-2003, Brad Douglas <brad@neruo.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2003 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1999-2003 Ralph Metzler Marcus Metzler
Copyright (C) 1999-2003 Ralph Metzler & Marcus Metzler
Copyright (C) 1999-2003 Matthew Wilcox <willy at parisc-linux.org>
Copyright (C) 1999-2003 Holger Waechtler <holger@convergence.de>
Copyright (C) 1999-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co. David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com> Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2003 Andre Hedrick <andre@linux-ide.org>
Copyright (C) 1999-2002, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 1999-2002, 2004 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian
<eranian@hpl.hp.com> David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2002 by Massimo Piccioni <dafastidio@libero.it>
Copyright (C) 1999-2002 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (C) 1999-2002 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 1999-2002 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1999-2002 Ralph Metzler Marcus Metzler for convergence integrated
media GmbH
Copyright (C) 1999-2002 Maxim Krasnyansky <maxk@qualcomm.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2002 Hewlett-Packard Co. David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com> Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2002 Hewlett-Packard Co.
Copyright (C) 1999-2002 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2002	Andre Hedrick <andre@linux-ide.org>
Copyright (C) 1999-2001, 2005 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2001, 2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger
<davidm@hpl.hp.com> Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2001 Ralph Metzler Marcus Metzler Holger Waechtler
Copyright (C) 1999-2001 Ralph Metzler & Marcus Metzler for convergence
integrated media GmbH
Copyright (C) 1999-2001 Nicolas Pitre
Copyright (C) 1999-2001 Naval Research Laboratory
Copyright (C) 1999-2001 Hewlett-Packard Company
Copyright (C) 1999-2001 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2001 Grant Grundler
Copyright (C) 1999-2001 Gerard Roudier <groudier@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 1999-2001 Cisco, Motorola
Copyright (C) 1999-2001 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 1999-2000, 2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2000, 2002-2003, 2005 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2000, 2002-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co. David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2000, 2002 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com> Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 by Massimo Piccioni <dafastidio@libero.it>
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Walt Drummond <drummond@valinux.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 VA Linux Systems
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Thomas Sailer (sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch)
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Takashi Iwai
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Nicolas Pitre <nico@fluxnic.net>
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Naval Research Laboratory
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Moxa Technologies (support@moxa.com).
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Maxim Krasnyansky <max_mk@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Hewlett-Packard Co
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 Grant Grundler
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2000 CJ, cjtsai@ali.com.tw, Maintainer
Copyright (C) 1999-2000	Andre Hedrick <andre@linux-ide.org>
Copyright (C) 1999--2000 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 1999,2003 Matthew Wilcox < willy at debian . org >
Copyright (C) 1999,2002,2003 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 1999,2002 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 1999,2001 Richard Zidlicky
Copyright (C) 1999,2000,2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Authors: Carsten Langgaard <carstenl@mips.com> Steven J. Hill <sjhill@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 1999,2000,2004,2005,2012 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights
reserved. Authors: Carsten Langgaard <carstenl@mips.com> Maciej W. Rozycki
<macro@mips.com> Steven J. Hill <sjhill@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 1999,2000,2001 by Michael Engel <engel@unix-ag.org> and Karsten
Merker <merker@linuxtag.org>
Copyright (C) 1999,2000 Walt Drummond <drummond@valinux.com>
Copyright (C) 1999,2000 Philipp Rumpf
Copyright (C) 1999,2000 Niibe Yutaka & Kaz Kojima
Copyright (C) 1999,2000 Martin Lucina, Tom Zerucha
Copyright (C) 1999,2000 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 1999,2000 Arm Limited
Copyright (C) 1999,2000 Anton Blanchard (anton@samba.org)
Copyright (C) 1999,2000 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 1999, Trond Myklebust <trond.myklebust@fys.uio.no>
Copyright (C) 1999, Anthony Tong <atong@uiuc.edu>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2007, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2007 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2007 2012 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2006 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2005, 2010 Thomas Sailer (t.sailer@alumni.ethz.ch)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2004-2008 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999, 2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999, 2004 Manfred Spraul
Copyright (C) 1999, 2003-2004 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian
<eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2003 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian
<eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2002-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co. David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com> Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2002-2003 Asit Mallick <Asit.K.Mallick@intel.com> Don Dugger
<Don.Dugger@intel.com> Suresh Siddha <suresh.b.siddha@intel.com> Fenghua Yu
<fenghua.yu@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2002 Niibe Yutaka
Copyright (C) 1999, 2001-2002 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian
<eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2001, 2003 David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2001 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999, 2001 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2001 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian
<eranian@hpl.hp.com> David Mosberger <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2001 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian
<eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2001 David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2004, 2005 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights
reserved. Authors: Carsten Langgaard <carstenl@mips.com> Maciej W. Rozycki
<macro@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2004 MIPS Technologies, Inc. All rights reserved.
Authors: Carsten Langgaard <carstenl@mips.com> Maciej W. Rozycki
<macro@mips.com>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2004 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2002 Niibe Yutaka
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 - Karim Yaghmour (karim@opersys.com)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001 by Michael Engel <engel@unix-ag.org>, Karsten
Merker <merker@linuxtag.org> and Harald Koerfgen.
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001 by Michael Engel <engel@unix-ag.org>, Karsten
Merker <merker@linuxtag.org>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001 by Michael Engel <engel@unix-ag.org>, Karsten
Merker <merker@debian.org> and Harald Koerfgen <hkoerfg@web.de>, Phil Blundell
<philb@gnu.org> 1998
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001 by Michael Engel <engel@unix-ag.org> and Karsten
Merker <merker@linuxtag.org>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001 Sam Creasey (sammy@sammy.net)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001 Ingo Molnar, Red Hat
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 06 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 05, 06 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 04 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 01, 2002 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 01, 03, 06 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 01, 02, 03 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 by Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 by Silicon Graphics
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Tim Waugh <tim@cyberelk.demon.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Thomas Sailer (sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc. Kevin Kissell, kevink@mips.com
and Carsten Langgaard, carstenl@mips.com
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc. Kevin D. Kissell,
kevink@mips.com and Carsten Langgaard, carstenl@mips.com
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Silcon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Philipp Rumpf <prumpf@tux.org>
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Niibe Yutaka & Kaz Kojima
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Niibe Yutaka
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Kaz Kojima & Niibe Yutaka
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Jeff Wiedemeier
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Jakub Jelinek (jakub@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Ingo Molnar, Red Hat
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 1999, 2000 Brian Warner	<warner@lothar.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 kaz Kojima
Copyright (C) 1999 by Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1999 by Michael Engel <engel@unix-ag.org> and Karsten Merker
<merker@guug.de>
Copyright (C) 1999 by Kaz Kojima & Niibe Yutaka
Copyright (C) 1999 by Kaz Kojima
Copyright (C) 1999 by Harald Koerfgen
Copyright (C) 1999 Zach Brown (with obvious credit due Ingo)
Copyright (C) 1999 Xi Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 Wolfgang Scherr <scherr@net4you.net>
Copyright (C) 1999 Walt Drummond <drummond@valinux.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 Vladimir Gurevich <vgurevic@cisco.com> Bear & Hare Software,
Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 Vladimir Gurevich <vgurevic@cisco.com> Bare & Hare Software,
Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 VMware, Inc. (Regis "HPReg" Duchesne)
Copyright (C) 1999 VA Linux Systems
Copyright (C) 1999 The Puffin Group
Copyright (C) 1999 Tetsuya Okada & Niibe Yutaka
Copyright (C) 1999 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 1999 SuSE GmbH, (Philipp Rumpf, prumpf@tux.org)
Copyright (C) 1999 SuSE GmbH Nuernberg
Copyright (C) 1999 SuSE GmbH (Philipp Rumpf, prumpf@tux.org)
Copyright (C) 1999 SuSE GmbH
Copyright (C) 1999 Stuart Menefy
Copyright (C) 1999 Steve Ratcliffe
Copyright (C) 1999 Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 Srinivasa Prasad Thirumalachar <sprasad@sprasad.engr.sgi.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 Silicon Integrated Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc. Kevin Kissell, kevink@mips.com and
Carsten Langgaard, carstenl@mips.com
Copyright (C) 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc. Kevin D. Kissell, kevink@mips.com and
Carsten Langgaard, carstenl@mips.com
Copyright (C) 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc. - Jeffrey Newquist
Copyright (C) 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc. (Jeffrey Newquist)
Copyright (C) 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 Silicon Graphics Kevin D. Kissell, kevink@mips.org and
Carsten Langgaard, carstenl@mips.com
Copyright (C) 1999 Silicon Graphics
Copyright (C) 1999 Ryan Drake <stiletto@mediaone.net>
Copyright (C) 1999 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 1999 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1999 Roman Weissgaerber
Copyright (C) 1999 Richard Zidlicky
Copyright (C) 1999 Richard Hirst <richard@sleepie.demon.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 1999 Richard Gooch
Copyright (C) 1999 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 1999 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1999 Rainer Johanni <Rainer@Johanni.de>
Copyright (C) 1999 RG Studio s.c. Written by Krzysztof Halasa
<khc@rgstudio.com.pl>
Copyright (C) 1999 Promise Technology, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 Precision Insight, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 Philipp Rumpf <prumpf@tux.org>
Copyright (C) 1999 Phil Blundell
Copyright (C) 1999 Pavel Semerad (semerad@ss1000.ms.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1999 Paul `Rusty' Russell & Michael J. Neuling
Copyright (C) 1999 Oystein Svendsen <svendsen@pvv.org>
Copyright (C) 1999 Niibe Yutaka & Takeshi Yaegashi
Copyright (C) 1999 Niibe Yutaka & Kaz Kojima
Copyright (C) 1999 Niibe Yutaka
Copyright (C) 1999 Nicolas Pitre <nico@fluxnic.net>
Copyright (C) 1999 Nicolas Pitre
Copyright (C) 1999 Nathan Laredo <laredo@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 1999 Mike Bernson <mike@mlb.org>
Copyright (C) 1999 Matthew Wilcox <willy@infradead.org>
Copyright (C) 1999 Makoto Kato (m_kato@ga2.so-net.ne.jp)
Copyright (C) 1999 MIPS Technologies, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999 Linus Torvalds.
Copyright (C) 1999 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1999 Kaz Kojima
Copyright (C) 1999 Juergen Peitz
Copyright (C) 1999 John G. Dorsey. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 1999 John G. Dorsey.
Copyright (C) 1999 Johannes Erdfelt
Copyright (C) 1999 Jeff Hartmann.
Copyright (C) 1999 Jeff Hartmann
Copyright (C) 1999 Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz)
Copyright (C) 1999 Jakub Jelinek (jakub@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1999 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 1999 Intel Corp.
Copyright (C) 1999 Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 Iain Grant
Copyright (C) 1999 IBM Deutschland Entwicklung GmbH, IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 1999 IBM Corporation
Copyright (C) 1999 Hewlett-Packard Co.
Copyright (C) 1999 Hewlett-Packard Co
Copyright (C) 1999 Hewlett-Packard (Frank Rowand)
Copyright (C) 1999 Harald Koerfgen
Copyright (C) 1999 Gregory P. Smith
Copyright (C) 1999 Grant Erickson <grant@lcse.umn.edu>
Copyright (C) 1999 Goutham Rao <goutham.rao@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 Gerhard Wichert, Siemens AG Gerhard.Wichert@pdb.siemens.de
Copyright (C) 1999 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 1999 G. Allen Morris III <gam3@acm.org>  Neil Brown
<neilb@cse.unsw.edu.au>
Copyright (C) 1999 Eric Youngdale
Copyright (C) 1999 Eric A. Thomas
Copyright (C) 1999 Eddie C. Dost (ecd@skynet.be)
Copyright (C) 1999 Eddie C. Dost (ecd@atecom.com)
Copyright (C) 1999 Don Dugger <don.dugger@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 Don Dugger <Don.Dugger@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1999 David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 1999 David A. Hinds. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 1999 David A. Hinds.
Copyright (C) 1999 David A. Hinds -- dahinds@users.sourceforge.net
Copyright (C) 1999 David A. Hinds
Copyright (C) 1999 Dan Block
Copyright (C) 1999 D. Jeff Dionne
Copyright (C) 1999 Cort Dougan <cort@cs.nmt.edu>
Copyright (C) 1999 Convergence Integrated Media GmbH <ralph@convergence.de>
Copyright (C) 1999 Colin J. Watson <cjw44@cam.ac.uk>.
Copyright (C) 1999 Christoph Rohland
Copyright (C) 1999 Christoph Bartelmus <lirc@bartelmus.de>
Copyright (C) 1999 Brad Boyer (flar@pants.nu)
Copyright (C) 1999 Benjamin Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org) and Paul
Mackerras (paulus@samba.org).
Copyright (C) 1999 Asit Mallick <asit.k.mallick@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 Asit Mallick <Asit.K.Mallick@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 Arun Sharma <arun.sharma@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 Andrew R. Baker (andrewb@uab.edu)
Copyright (C) 1999 Anders Blomdell <anders.blomdell@control.lth.se>
Copyright (C) 1999 Alpha Processor, Inc., David Daniel, Stig Telfer, Soohoon Lee
Copyright (C) 1999 AbsoluteValue Systems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright (C) 1999 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2012 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2010 Intel Corporation.
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2008 Krzysztof Halasa <khc@pm.waw.pl>
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2006 Krzysztof Halasa <khc@pm.waw.pl>
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2004 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2003 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2003 ARM Limited
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2002 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2001 Kanoj Sarcar
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2001 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com) Bill Ryder
(bryder@sgi.com)
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2001 Greg Kroah-Hartman (greg@kroah.com)
Copyright (C) 1999 - 2001 Greg Kroah-Hartman	<greg@kroah.com>
Copyright (C) 1999	Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 1999	Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1999      Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl> Philip Edelbrock
<phil@netroedge.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-99 Kirk Reiser.
Copyright (C) 1998-99 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>
Copyright (C) 1998-9 Tim Waugh <tim@cyberelk.demon.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 1998-9 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 1998-2009, 2011 Texas Instruments. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 1998-2009 Texas Instruments. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 1998-2008 Novell/SUSE
Copyright (C) 1998-2008 Krzysztof Halasa <khc@pm.waw.pl>
Copyright (C) 1998-2006 Michael Hunold <michael@mihu.de>
Copyright (C) 1998-2005 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1998-2005 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 1998-2005 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2004 by David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2004 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com> Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2003, 2005 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2003 Michael Hunold <michael@mihu.de>
Copyright (C) 1998-2003 Krzysztof Halasa <khc@pm.waw.pl>
Copyright (C) 1998-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
David Mosberger <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com> Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com> 04/11/17 Ashok Raj  <ashok.raj@intel.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2003 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 1998-2002 by Jes Sorensen, <jes@wildopensource.com>.
Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Paul Mackerras
Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Andre Hedrick <andre@linux-ide.org>
Copyright (C) 1998-2001, 2003-2004 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com> Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2001, 2003, 2005 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian
<eranian@hpl.hp.com> David Mosberger <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2001, 2003, 2005 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com> Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2001, 2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com> Stephane Eranian <eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Hewlett-Packard Co
Copyright (C) 1998-2001 Gerard Roudier <groudier@free.fr>
Copyright (C) 1998-2001 David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2001 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 1998-2000, 2002 Tim Waugh <tim@cyberelk.net>
Copyright (C) 1998-2000, 2002 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 by Microgate Corporation
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 by Massimo Piccioni <dafastidio@libero.it>
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Thomas Sailer (sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch)
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Russell King, Dave Gilbert.
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Phil Blundell
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Michel Aubry, Maintainer
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Michel Aubry
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 InnoSys Incorporated. All Rights Reserved
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Harald Koerfgen
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Gerard Roudier
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Anton Blanchard (anton@samba.org)
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Andrzej Krzysztofowicz, Maintainer
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Andrzej Krzysztofowicz
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Andre Hedrick (andre@linux-ide.org)
Copyright (C) 1998-2000 Andre Hedrick <andre@linux-ide.org>
Copyright (C) 1998-2000	Andre Hedrick <andre@linux-ide.org>
Copyright (C) 1998-1999, Stephen Tweedie and Bill Hawes
Copyright (C) 1998-1999, 2002-2004 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-1999 TiVo, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1998-1999 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 1998-1999 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 1998-1999 Pete Zaitcev (zaitcev@yahoo.com)
Copyright (C) 1998-1999 Ilario Nardinocchi (nardinoc@CS.UniBO.IT)
Copyright (C) 1998-1999 Andrzej Krzysztofowicz, Author and Maintainer
Copyright (C) 1998-1999 ARM Limited.
Copyright (C) 1998,99 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>, Jaroslav Kysela
<perex@perex.cz>
Copyright (C) 1998,99 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 1998,99 Takashi Iwai
Copyright (C) 1998,2001-2005 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 1998,2001 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 1998,2000 Rik van Riel
Copyright (C) 1998,2000 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 1998,1999 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1998,1999 Philip Blundell
Copyright (C) 1998,1999 Kenneth Albanowski <kjahds@kjahds.com>, The Silver
Hammer Group, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 1998,1999 D. Jeff Dionne <jeff@uClinux.org>  2000 James D.
Schettine {james@telos-systems.com}
Copyright (C) 1998,1999 Christian Theiss <mistert@rz.fh-augsburg.de>
Copyright (C) 1998, 99, 2000, 01, 2002 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 1998, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1998, 2001, 2002, 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1998, 2001, 03 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1998, 2001 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1998, 2000 Richard Henderson
Copyright (C) 1998, 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2002-2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2002, 2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2002 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001-2004 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001-2002, 2004 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-
Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001, 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001, 2003 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001 Philip Blundell
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001 Hewlett-Packard Co Stephane Eranian
<eranian@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001 Hewlett-Packard Co
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2001 David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2000 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2000 Richard Henderson
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2000 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2000 Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999, 2000 Harald Koerfgen
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 Russell King, Phil Blundell
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 Richard Henderson
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 Phil Blundell
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 Hewlett-Packard Co David Mosberger-Tang
<davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 Hewlett-Packard Co
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl> and Philip Edelbrock
<phil@netroedge.com>
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl> and Kyosti Malkki
<kmalkki@cc.hut.fi>
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 Eddie C. Dost (ecd@skynet.be)
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999 Brent Baccala (baccala@freesoft.org)
Copyright (C) 1998 by the FundsXpress, INC.
Copyright (C) 1998 by Harald Koerfgen
Copyright (C) 1998 V. Roganov and G. Raiko
Copyright (C) 1998 Ulf Carlsson
Copyright (C) 1998 Trent Piepho <xyzzy@u.washington.edu>
Copyright (C) 1998 Thomas Bogendoerfer
Copyright (C) 1998 Steffen A. Mork (linux-dev@morknet.de)
Copyright (C) 1998 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 1998 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1998 Richard Henderson
Copyright (C) 1998 Randy Gobbel.
Copyright (C) 1998 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1998 Philip Blundell <philb@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 1998 Phil Blundell
Copyright (C) 1998 Peter Maydell (pmaydell@chiark.greenend.org.uk)
Copyright (C) 1998 Pete Zaitcev <zaitcev@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 1998 Pauline Middelink <middelin@polyware.nl>
Copyright (C) 1998 Paul Mackerras.
Copyright (C) 1998 Paul Mackerras and Fabio Riccardi.
Copyright (C) 1998 Paul Mackerras & Ben. Herrenschmidt.
Copyright (C) 1998 Paul Mackerras
Copyright (C) 1998 Olivier A. D. Lebaillif
Copyright (C) 1998 Nicolas Pitre <nico@fluxnic.net>
Copyright (C) 1998 Kirk Reiser.
Copyright (C) 1998 Kenneth Albanowski <kjahds@kjahds.com>, The Silver Hammer
Group, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 1998 Kenneth Albanowski <kjahds@kjahds.com>,
Copyright (C) 1998 Kenneth Albanowski <kjahds@kjahds.com> The Silver Hammer
Group, Ltd.
Copyright (C) 1998 Kenneth Albanowski <kjahds@kjahds.com> JAN/99 --
(gerg@snapgear.com)
Copyright (C) 1998 Kenneth Albanowski <kjahds@kjahds.com>
Copyright (C) 1998 Jon Howell
Copyright (C) 1998 Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz)
Copyright (C) 1998 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1998 Jakub Jelinek <jj@ultra.linux.cz>
Copyright (C) 1998 Inside Out Networks, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1998 Ingo Molnar.
Copyright (C) 1998 Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 1998 Harald Koerfgen, Frieder Streffer and Paul M. Antoine
Copyright (C) 1998 Harald Koerfgen and Paul M. Antoine
Copyright (C) 1998 Harald Koerfgen
Copyright (C) 1998 Gleb Raiko & Vladimir Roganov
Copyright (C) 1998 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 1998 Gabriel Paubert.
Copyright (C) 1998 Frederic Rible F1OAT (frible@teaser.fr) Thomas Sailer
(sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch)
Copyright (C) 1998 Franz Sirl
Copyright (C) 1998 Eddie C. Dost (ecd@skynet.be) Pete Zaitcev.
Copyright (C) 1998 Eddie C. Dost (ecd@skynet.be)
Copyright (C) 1998 Deborah Wallach
Copyright (C) 1998 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1998 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org> https://www.comedi.org/
Copyright (C) 1998 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org> Janne Jalkanen
<jalkanen@cs.hut.fi> Eric Bunn <ebu@cs.hut.fi>
Copyright (C) 1998 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 1998 Dave Perks <dperks@ibm.net>
Copyright (C) 1998 Daniel Pirkl <daniel.pirkl@email.cz> Charles University,
Faculty of Mathematics and Physics
Copyright (C) 1998 Daniel Jacobowitz <dan@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 1998 Dan Jacobowitz <dan@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 1998 Dan Jacobowitz
Copyright (C) 1998 D. Jeff Dionne <jeff@lineo.ca>, Kenneth Albanowski
<kjahds@kjahds.com>
Copyright (C) 1998 Carnegie Mellon University
Copyright (C) 1998 Bernd Harries
Copyright (C) 1998 Ben Pfaff <blp@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 1998 Anton Blanchard (anton@progsoc.uts.edu.au)
Copyright (C) 1998 Andrew Veliath
Copyright (C) 1998 Andrea Arcangeli 1999-03-10
Copyright (C) 1998 Alan Cox <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>
Copyright (C) 1998 Alan Cox & Andi Kleen
Copyright (C) 1998 Alan Cox
Copyright (C) 1998 - 2014 Douglas Gilbert
Copyright (C) 1998 - 2003 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>, Philip Edelbrock
<phil@netroedge.com>, and Mark Studebaker <mdsxyz123@yahoo.com>
Copyright (C) 1998 - 2001 Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>, Kyösti Mälkki
<kmalkki@cc.hut.fi>, and Mark D. Studebaker <mdsxyz123@yahoo.com> Aurelien Jarno
<aurelien@aurel32.net> Jean Delvare <jdelvare@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 1997-8 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 1997-2014 AudioScience Inc. <support@audioscience.com>
Copyright (C) 1997-2012 AudioScience Inc. <support@audioscience.com>
Copyright (C) 1997-2011 AudioScience Inc. <support@audioscience.com>
Copyright (C) 1997-2007 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org> Author: Ian Abbott,
MEV Ltd. <abbotti@mev.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 1997-2005 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1997-2004 Erez Zadok
Copyright (C) 1997-2003 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1997-2003 Erez Zadok
Copyright (C) 1997-2002 by Ron Minnich <rminnich@sarnoff.com>
Copyright (C) 1997-2002 Russell king
Copyright (C) 1997-2002 Russell King Hyok S. Choi, 2003.
Copyright (C) 1997-2002 Russell King Catalin Marinas
Copyright (C) 1997-2002 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1997-2002 Inside Out Networks, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1997-2002 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 1997-2001 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 1997-2001 David Woodhouse
Copyright (C) 1997-2001 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 1997-2000 Russell King, Stefan Hanske
Copyright (C) 1997-2000 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1997-2000 Richard Gooch
Copyright (C) 1997-2000 Jakub Jelinek (jakub@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1997-2000 David A. Schleef <ds@schleef.org>
Copyright (C) 1997-1999 Russell King from:
Copyright (C) 1997-1999 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1997-1999 Richard Gooch
Copyright (C) 1997-1999 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1997-1998 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1997-1998 Richard Gooch
Copyright (C) 1997-1998 Inside Out Networks, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1997,1999,2000 Jakub Jelinek (jakub@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1997,1999 Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz)
Copyright (C) 1997,1998,1999 Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz)
Copyright (C) 1997,1998,1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc. Contributed by
Richard Henderson (rth@cygnus.com), Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz), David S.
Miller (davem@redhat.com) and Peter Maydell (pmaydell@chiark.greenend.org.uk).
Copyright (C) 1997,1998,1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc. Contributed by
Richard Henderson (rth@cygnus.com), Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz) and Peter
Maydell (pmaydell@chiark.greenend.org.uk).
Copyright (C) 1997,1998,1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc. Contributed by
Richard Henderson (rth@cygnus.com), Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz) and David
S. Miller (davem@redhat.com).
Copyright (C) 1997,1998,1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc. Contributed by
Richard Henderson (rth@cygnus.com), Jakub Jelinek (jakub@redhat.com) and David
S. Miller (davem@redhat.com).
Copyright (C) 1997,1998 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1997,1998 Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz)
Copyright (C) 1997,1998 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1997,1998	Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1997, Stephen Tweedie
Copyright (C) 1997, Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1997, Olaf Kirch
Copyright (C) 1997, 99, 2001 - 2004 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 1997, 98, 99, 2000, 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1997, 98, 99, 2000, 01, 05 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 1997, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1997, 2007, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1997, 2007 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1997, 2006 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1997, 2004 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1997, 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1997, 2001, 2003, 2004 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 1997, 2001 by Geert Uytterhoeven and others
Copyright (C) 1997, 2001 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org), David S. Miller
(davem@davemloft.net).
Copyright (C) 1997, 2000, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1997, 1999, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1997, 1999, 2001, 06 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1997, 1999, 2000, 2001 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1997, 1999 Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz)
Copyright (C) 1997, 1999 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 2005 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 2001, 03, 05, 06 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999, 2007 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999, 2003, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2009 Ingo Molnar, Hajnalka Szabo Jiang Liu
<jiang.liu@linux.intel.com>
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2009 Ingo Molnar, Hajnalka Szabo
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 06 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 Ralf Baechle ralf@gnu.org Carsten
Langgaard, carstenl@mips.com
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999 Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz)
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998, 1999 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998 Richard Henderson
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998 Martin Mares <mj@atrey.karlin.mff.cuni.cz>
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998 Krzysztof G. Baranowski
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998 Jay Estabrook
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1997, 1998 Francois-Rene Rideau <fare@tunes.org>
Copyright (C) 1997 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic 3163, Australia |
E-mail billm@jacobi.maths.monash.edu.au |
Copyright (C) 1997 by Paul M. Antoine. reworked 1998 by Harald Koerfgen.
Copyright (C) 1997 by Digital Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Massachusetts. All
rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 1997 Theodore Ts'o
Copyright (C) 1997 Sten Wang
Copyright (C) 1997 Sigurdur Asgeirsson Jeffrey Kuskin (jsk@mojave.stanford.edu)
Danilo Beuche 1998 Damien Doligez, INRIA Rocquencourt Paul Mundt
(lethal@chaoticdreams.org)
Copyright (C) 1997 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1997 Rudolf Koenig (rfkoenig@immd4.informatik.uni-erlangen.de)
Copyright (C) 1997 Roman Hodek <Roman.Hodek@informatik.uni-erlangen.de> Richard
Jelinek <rj@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 1997 Roman Hodek
Copyright (C) 1997 Richard Waltham <dormouse@farsrobt.demon.co.uk>
Copyright (C) 1997 Richard Hirst [richard@sleepie.demon.co.uk]
Copyright (C) 1997 Richard Günther
Copyright (C) 1997 Paul Mackerras.
Copyright (C) 1997 Paul Mackerras (paulus@samba.org)
Copyright (C) 1997 Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1997 Miguel de Icaza (miguel@nuclecu.unam.mx)
Copyright (C) 1997 Michal Rehacek (Michal.Rehacek@st.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1997 Michael AK Tesch
Copyright (C) 1997 Michael A. Griffith (grif@acm.org)
Copyright (C) 1997 Martin von Löwis, Régis Duchesne
Copyright (C) 1997 Martin Mares <mj@atrey.karlin.mff.cuni.cz>
Copyright (C) 1997 Martin Mares
Copyright (C) 1997 Markus Schroeder (schroedm@uni-duesseldorf.de) Ralph Metzler
(rjkm@thp.uni-koeln.de)
Copyright (C) 1997 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1997 Jes Sorensen
Copyright (C) 1997 Jay Estabrook
Copyright (C) 1997 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1997 Jakub Jelinek (jakub@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1997 Jakub Jelinek <jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz>
Copyright (C) 1997 Geert Uytterhoeven.
Copyright (C) 1997 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 1997 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1997 Fabio Riccardi. 
Copyright (C) 1997 Eric Youngdale
Copyright (C) 1997 Eddie C. Dost (ecd@skynet.be)
Copyright (C) 1997 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1997 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright (C) 1997 Dan Malek (dmalek@jlc.net).
Copyright (C) 1997 Dan Malek <dmalek@jlc.net>
Copyright (C) 1997 Cobalt Microserver
Copyright (C) 1997 Carnegie Mellon University
Copyright (C) 1997 Anton Blanchard (anton@progsoc.uts.edu.au)
Copyright (C) 1997 Andrew Main <zefram@fysh.org>
Copyright (C) 1997 Andi Kleen
Copyright (C) 1997 -- 2000 Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>
Copyright (C) 1997 - 2002 Ralf Baechle (ralf@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 1997 - 2000, 2003, 04 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 1997 - 2000, 2003 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 1997	Wu Ching Chen
Copyright (C) 1996-98 Ingo Molnar, Gadi Oxman
Copyright (C) 1996-2012 Markus F.X.J. Oberhumer <markus@oberhumer.com>
Copyright (C) 1996-2005 Paul Mackerras.
Copyright (C) 1996-2005 Markus Franz Xaver Johannes Oberhumer All Rights
Reserved.
Copyright (C) 1996-2003 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 1996-2003 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1996-2002 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1996-2001 Paul Mackerras (paulus@cs.anu.edu.au) Ben. Herrenschmidt
(benh@kernel.crashing.org)
Copyright (C) 1996-2001 Cort Dougan,  Paul Mackerras
Copyright (C) 1996-2001 Cort Dougan <cort@fsmlabs.com>
Copyright (C) 1996-2000 Vojtech Pavlik
Copyright (C) 1996-2000 Thomas Sailer (sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch)
Copyright (C) 1996-2000 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1996-1999 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 1996-1999 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1996-1999 Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz)
Copyright (C) 1996-1999 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1996-1999 Jakub Jelinek (jakub@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1996-1999 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright (C) 1996-1998, Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1996-1998 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 1996-1998 Martin Mares <mj@atrey.karlin.mff.cuni.cz>
Copyright (C) 1996-1998 Linus Torvalds & authors (see below)
Copyright (C) 1996-1997 Paul H. Hargrove
Copyright (C) 1996,98,99 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1996,97,98 Ralph Metzler Marcus Metzler
Copyright (C) 1996,97,98 Ralph Metzler (rjkm@thp.uni-koeln.de) Marcus Metzler
(mocm@thp.uni-koeln.de)
Copyright (C) 1996,97,98 Ralph Metzler (rjkm@thp.uni-koeln.de) 2001 Michael
Eskin 2002 Yurij Sysoev <yurij@naturesoft.net> 2003 Gerd Knorr
<kraxel@bytesex.org>
Copyright (C) 1996,97,98 Ralph Metzler (rjkm@thp.uni-koeln.de)
Copyright (C) 1996,97,98 Ralph Metzler (rjkm@metzlerbros.de) Marcus Metzler
(mocm@metzlerbros.de)
Copyright (C) 1996,97,98 Ralph Metzler <rjkm@thp.uni-koeln.de> Marcus Metzler
<mocm@thp.uni-koeln.de>
Copyright (C) 1996,97 Ralph Metzler (rjkm@thp.uni-koeln.de)
Copyright (C) 1996,97 Ralph Metzler <rjkm@thp.uni-koeln.de>
Copyright (C) 1996,2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1996,2005,2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1996,2005 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1996,1998 Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz)
Copyright (C) 1996,1998 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1996,1998 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1996,1997,1999 Jakub Jelinek (jakub@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1996,1997,1998 Russell King. Matthew Godbolt (linux-
user@willothewisp.demon.co.uk) Hyok S. Choi (hyok.choi@samsung.com)
Copyright (C) 1996,1997,1998 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 1996,1997 Thomas K. Dyas (tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu)
Copyright (C) 1996,1997 Pekka Pietik{inen
Copyright (C) 1996,1997 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz) Pete Zaitcev
<zaitcev@yahoo.com> 2000.
Copyright (C) 1996,1997 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1996,1997 Fredrik Noring, lars brinkhoff & Tomas Berndtsson
Copyright (C) 1996, Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1996, Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1996, Cygnus Software Technologies Ltd.
Copyright (C) 1996, 99, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 99 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 98, 99, 2000, 01 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 97, 99, 2000, 03, 04, 06 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 97, 98, 99, 2000 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 97, 98, 2000, 03, 04, 06 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 1996, 97, 2001, 04 Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 1996, 97, 2000, 2001 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1996, 2007, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1996, 2006, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1996, 2004, 2007 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net).
Copyright (C) 1996, 2001, 2006 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1996, 2000 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1999, 2007 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1996, 1999, 2003, 2006, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1996, 1999, 2001 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1999, 2001 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1996, 1999 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1999 Silcon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1996, 1999 Jay A Estabrook
Copyright (C) 1996, 1999 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1996, 1998, 1999, 2002, 2003, 2006, 2008 David S. Miller
(davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1996, 1998, 1999, 2002 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2004 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1996, 1998 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 2007 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 2004, 05 by Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 2000, 2012 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 2000 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1999 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998, 2001, 07, 08 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998, 2001 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998, 2000 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, Ingo Molnar, Matti Aarnio, Jakub
Jelinek, Richard Henderson.
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 03, 04 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999 Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz)
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998 Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998 Ingo Molnar, Miguel de Icaza, Gadi Oxman
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998 Derrick J Brashear (shadow@andrew.cmu.edu)
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997 Olaf Kirch
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997 Ingo Molnar, Miguel de Icaza, Gadi Oxman
Copyright (C) 1996, 1997 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright (C) 1996 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic 3163, Australia |
E-mail billm@jacobi.maths.monash.edu.au |
Copyright (C) 1996 by Paul M. Antoine
Copyright (C) 1996 by Erik Stahlman
Copyright (C) 1996 by David S. Miller
Copyright (C) 1996 by ACN S.A
Copyright (C) 1996 Thomas K. Dyas (tdyas@noc.rutgers.edu)
Copyright (C) 1996 Thomas K. Dyas (tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu)
Copyright (C) 1996 Stoned Elipot
Copyright (C) 1996 Simon G. Vogl 1999 Hans Berglund
Copyright (C) 1996 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 1996 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1996 Roman Zippel
Copyright (C) 1996 Peter J. Braam <braam@maths.ox.ac.uk>, Michael Callahan
<callahan@maths.ox.ac.uk>
Copyright (C) 1996 Peter J. Braam <braam@maths.ox.ac.uk> and Michael Callahan
<callahan@maths.ox.ac.uk>
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Mackerras. Dan Malek
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Mackerras.
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Mackerras and Mark Abene.
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Mackerras and Mark Abene
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Mackerras Matt Porter (mporter@mvista.com)
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Mackerras Amiga/APUS changes by Jesper Skov
(jskov@cygnus.co.uk).
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Mackerras (paulus@samba.org)
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Mackerras (paulus@cs.anu.edu.au)
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Mackerras (Paul.Mackerras@cs.anu.edu.au)
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Mackerras <paulus@cs.anu.edu.au>
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Mackerras
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul M. Antoine Paul M. Antoine David S. Miller and Harald
Koerfgen
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul M. Antoine
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul H. Hargrove
Copyright (C) 1996 Paul Gortmaker
Copyright (C) 1996 Olaf Kirch, <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1996 Olaf Kirch 04 Aug 1998 Ion Badulescu <ionut@cs.columbia.edu>
Copyright (C) 1996 Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1996 Mike Shaver (shaver@zeroknowledge.com)
Copyright (C) 1996 Miguel de Icaza (miguel@nuclecu.unam.mx)
Copyright (C) 1996 Martin von Löwis
Copyright (C) 1996 Larry Ewing (lewing@isc.tamu.edu)
Copyright (C) 1996 Jesper Skov (jskov@cygnus.co.uk)
Copyright (C) 1996 Jay A Estabrook
Copyright (C) 1996 Jakub Jelinek (jj@sunsite.mff.cuni.cz)
Copyright (C) 1996 Gertjan van Wingerde
Copyright (C) 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc. Contributed by David Mosberger
(davidm@cs.arizona.edu).
Copyright (C) 1996 Frank Neumann
Copyright (C) 1996 Eddie C. Dost (ecd@skynet.be)
Copyright (C) 1996 Eddie C. Dost (ecd@brainaid.de)
Copyright (C) 1996 David Sitsky (David.Sitsky@anu.edu.au)
Copyright (C) 1996 David S. Miller Kevin D. Kissell, kevink@mips.com and Carsten
Langgaard, carstenl@mips.com
Copyright (C) 1996 David S. Miller (dm@sgi.com)
Copyright (C) 1996 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1996 David S. Miller (davem@caipfs.rutgers.edu)
Copyright (C) 1996 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright (C) 1996 David S. Miller
Copyright (C) 1996 David Mosberger-Tang.
Copyright (C) 1996 Dave Redman (djhr@tadpole.co.uk)
Copyright (C) 1996 Dave Frascone [chaos@mindspring.com] Richard Hirst
[richard@sleepie.demon.co.uk]
Copyright (C) 1996 Cort Dougan <cort@fsmlabs.com> Paul Mackerras.
Copyright (C) 1996 Cort Dougan <cort@cs.nmt.edu> Paul Mackerras. 
Copyright (C) 1996 Cort Dougan <cort@cs.nmt.edu> Paul Mackerras.
Copyright (C) 1996 Cort Dougan <cort@cs.nmt.edu>
Copyright (C) 1996 Adrian Rodriguez (adrian@franklins-tower.rutgers.edu)
Laboratory for Computer Science Research Computing Facility Rutgers, The State
University of New Jersey
Copyright (C) 1995-99, 2000- 02, 06 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 1995-99 Simon G. Vogl Kyösti Mälkki <kmalkki@cc.hut.fi> and even
Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>
Copyright (C) 1995-99 Simon G. Vogl Kyösti Mälkki <kmalkki@cc.hut.fi> Rodolfo
Giometti <giometti@enneenne.com> and Michael Lawnick
<michael.lawnick.ext@nsn.com>
Copyright (C) 1995-97 Simon G. Vogl 1998-99 Hans Berglund
Copyright (C) 1995-97 Simon G. Vogl
Copyright (C) 1995-2009 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995-2006 Dell Inc.
Copyright (C) 1995-2005 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995-2005 Mark Adler
Copyright (C) 1995-2005 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler
Copyright (C) 1995-2005 Dell Inc.
Copyright (C) 1995-2004 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995-2004 Mark Adler
Copyright (C) 1995-2003 Russell King 2001-2002 Keith Owens
Copyright (C) 1995-2003 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995-2003 Mark Adler
Copyright (C) 1995-2003 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 1995-2002 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995-2001 by Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995-2001 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995-2000 Simon G. Vogl Kyösti Mälkki <kmalkki@cc.hut.fi> and
Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl>
Copyright (C) 1995-2000 Simon G. Vogl Frodo Looijaard <frodol@dds.nl> Kyösti
Mälkki <kmalkki@cc.hut.fi>
Copyright (C) 1995-2000 Simon G. Vogl
Copyright (C) 1995-2000 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 1995-2000 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995-2000 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995-1999 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995-1999 Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1995-1999 Gary Thomas, Paul Mackerras, Cort Dougan.
Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Mark Adler
Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Linus Torvalds Principal Author: mlord@pobox.com (Mark
Lord)
Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Jean-loup Gailly.
Copyright (C) 1995-1997, Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1995-1997 Simon G. Vogl, 1998-2000 Hans Berglund
Copyright (C) 1995-1997 Simon G. Vogl 1998-2000 Hans Berglund
Copyright (C) 1995-1997 Paul H. Hargrove
Copyright (C) 1995-1997 Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1995-1997 H. Peter Anvin
Copyright (C) 1995-1996 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995-1996 Linus Torvalds & authors (see driver)
Copyright (C) 1995-1996 Jean-loup Gailly
Copyright (C) 1995-1996 Gary Thomas (gdt@linuxppc.org) Cort Dougan
(cort@fsmlabs.com)
Copyright (C) 1995-1996 Gary Thomas (gdt@linuxppc.org) Cort Dougan
(cort@cs.nmt.edu)
Copyright (C) 1995-1996 Gary Thomas (gdt@linuxppc.org) Cort Dougan
<cort@fsmlabs.com>
Copyright (C) 1995-1996 Gary Thomas (gdt@linuxppc.org)
Copyright (C) 1995-1996 Gary Thomas <gdt@linuxppc.org>
Copyright (C) 1995--2003 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 1995,2002 Pete Zaitcev (zaitcev@yahoo.com)
Copyright (C) 1995,2002 Pete A. Zaitcev (zaitcev@yahoo.com)
Copyright (C) 1995,2001 Compaq Computer Corporation
Copyright (C) 1995,1999 Pete Zaitcev (zaitcev@yahoo.com)
Copyright (C) 1995,1997,2008,2009,2012 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1995,1996 by Paul M. Antoine, Chris Fraser.
Copyright (C) 1995,1996 Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1995,1996 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright (C) 1995, Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1995, 96, 99, 2001, 06 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 96, 99, 2001 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
Copyright (C) 1995, 96, 98, 99, 2000 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2003, 05 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2001 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2000, 01, 02, 03 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2000, 01, 02 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2000, 01 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2000 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1995, 2007 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1995, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1999, 2002 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1999, 2001, 2002 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1999, 2000, 2001 by Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1995, 1999, 2000 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1999 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1999 Silicon Graphics
Copyright (C) 1995, 1999 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1998, 2001, 2002 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1997, 2005, 2008 David S. Miller <davem@davemloft.net>
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996,1997,1998 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 2008 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 2007 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 2001 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 2000, 2001 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1998, 2000, 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997, 2002, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997, 2000, 2001, 05 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997, 1999, 2001 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2001, 2002, 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997 Paul M. Antoine and Harald Koerfgen
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997 Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 by Andreas Busse
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 Stoned Elipot
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 Russell King.
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 Paul M. Antoine.
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 Paul M. Antoine
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 Olaf Kirch, <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 Gero Kuhlmann and me.
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 Gero Kuhlmann <gero@gkminix.han.de>
Copyright (C) 1995, 1996 Andreas Busse
Copyright (C) 1995 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995 by Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1995 Waldorf Electronics
Copyright (C) 1995 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1995 Richard Hirst [richard@sleepie.demon.co.uk]
Copyright (C) 1995 Pete A. Zaitcev (zaitcev@yahoo.com)
Copyright (C) 1995 Olaf Kirch <okir@monad.swb.de>
Copyright (C) 1995 Miguel de Icaza (miguel@nuclecu.unam.mx)
Copyright (C) 1995 Michael Dreher
Copyright (C) 1995 Linus Torvalds Gary Thomas Cort Dougan (cort@cs.nmt.edu)
PPC64 Team, IBM Corp
Copyright (C) 1995 Linus Torvalds (Linus.Torvalds@helsinki.fi)
Copyright (C) 1995 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1995 Jay Estabrook
Copyright (C) 1995 Hamish Macdonald
Copyright (C) 1995 Geert Uytterhoeven
Copyright (C) 1995 Eric Schenk, Bruno Haible
Copyright (C) 1995 Eddie C. Dost (ecd@skynet.be)
Copyright (C) 1995 David S. Miller (davem@davemloft.net)
Copyright (C) 1995 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu) David Monro
(davidm@psrg.cs.usyd.edu.au)
Copyright (C) 1995 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu) Author: Tom Rini
<trini@kernel.crashing.org>
Copyright (C) 1995 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright (C) 1995 David S. Miller
Copyright (C) 1995 David A Rusling
Copyright (C) 1995 Andreas Busse
Copyright (C) 1995 Adrian M. Rodriguez (adrian@remus.rutgers.edu)
Copyright (C) 1995 - 2000, 2001 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995 - 2000, 01, 03 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995 - 2000 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995 - 2000 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995 - 1999 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995 - 1998 by Andreas Busse and Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1995 - 1997, 1999 Silcon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1995 - 1997 Marco van Wieringen - ELM Consultancy B.V.
Copyright (C) 1995 <chaffee@cs.berkeley.edu>
Copyright (C) 1995	Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1994-96 Marc ZYNGIER zyngier@ufr-info-p7.ibp.fr> or
maz@gloups.fdn.fr>
Copyright (C) 1994-2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc. Written by Ian Lance
Taylor, Cygnus Support
Copyright (C) 1994-2013 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1994-2006 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1994-2002 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1994-2000 Algorithmics Ltd.
Copyright (C) 1994-1999 Russell King Oleksij Remepl <linux@rempel-privat.de>
Copyright (C) 1994-1999 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1994-1999 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1994-1996 Linus Torvalds & authors
Copyright (C) 1994,1999 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic 3163, |
Australia. E-mail billm@melbpc.org.au |
Copyright (C) 1994,1996,1998 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright (C) 1994,1995 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic 3163, |
Australia. E-mail billm@jacobi.maths.monash.edu.au |
Copyright (C) 1994, Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1994, Karl Keyte
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 99, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 99, 2001 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2003, 06 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2000, 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2000, 01, 02, 03 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2000, 01, 02, 03 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 2000 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 97, 98, 2000 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 2003 by Wind River Systems Written by Fredrik
Markstrom
Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 2003 by Ralf Baechle by Paul M. Antoine, 1996
Copyright (C) 1994, 1996, 1998, 2001, 2002, 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1996, 1998, 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1996, 1998, 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1996, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1996, 1998, 1999, 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1996, 1998, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1996, 1997, 1998, 2001 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1996, 1997, 1998, 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1996, 1997, 1998 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1996 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005,
2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005
Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996, by Andreas Busse
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007
Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996, 1999, 2000 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996, 1999 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996, 1999 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996, 1998, 1999, 2002, 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 2000, 2001 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996 by Andreas Busse
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995, 1996 Paul M. Antoine.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995 by Waldorf Electronics, written by Ralf Baechle.
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995 Waldorf GmbH
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995 Waldorf Electronics Written by Ralf Baechle and Andreas
Busse
Copyright (C) 1994, 1995 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1994 by Waldorf GMBH, written by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994 by Waldorf Electronics
Copyright (C) 1994 by Linus Torvalds Gary Thomas modified by Cort
(cort@cs.nmt.edu)
Copyright (C) 1994 by Linus Torvalds Gary Thomas Cort Dougan and Paul Mackerras
Copyright (C) 1994 by Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1994 by Ingo Wilken (Ingo.Wilken@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
Copyright (C) 1994 by Hamish Macdonald Ross Biro 1/23/92, Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1994 by Hamish Macdonald
Copyright (C) 1994 by Florian La Roche
Copyright (C) 1994 by Alan Cox
Copyright (C) 1994 Wolfgang Stanglmeier
Copyright (C) 1994 Waldorf GMBH
Copyright (C) 1994 Roman Hodek
Copyright (C) 1994 Martin Schaller Roman Hodek
Copyright (C) 1994 Martin Schaller & Roman Hodek
Copyright (C) 1994 Martin Schaller
Copyright (C) 1994 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1994 Hamish Macdonald
Copyright (C) 1994 Florian La Roche
Copyright (C) 1994 David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright (C) 1994 David S. Miller
Copyright (C) 1994 David Carter [carter@compsci.bristol.ac.uk]
Copyright (C) 1994 Bjoern Brauel
Copyright (C) 1994 - 99, 2003, 06 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994 - 2006 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994 - 2003, 06, 07 by Ralf Baechle (ralf@linux-mips.org)
Copyright (C) 1994 - 2002 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994 - 2001, 2003, 07 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994 - 2001, 2003 by Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994 - 2000, 2006 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994 - 2000, 2001, 2003 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994 - 2000, 06 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994 - 2000 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994 - 1999, 2000, 03, 04 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994 - 1999, 2000, 03 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994 - 1999, 2000, 01, 06 Ralf Baechle
Copyright (C) 1994 - 1999, 2000 by Ralf Baechle and others.
Copyright (C) 1994 - 1999 by Ralf Baechle Paul M. Antoine, 1995, 1996 Ulf
Carlsson, 1998
Copyright (C) 1993-1997 Michael Beck
Copyright (C) 1993,1995,1997 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic 3163, |
Australia. E-mail billm@suburbia.net |
Copyright (C) 1993, 2000 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1993, 1994, 1995, 1999 Eric Youngdale
Copyright (C) 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Contributed by Paul Eggert (eggert@twinsun.com).
Copyright (C) 1993, 1994, 1995 Remy Card (card@masi.ibp.fr) Laboratoire MASI -
Institut Blaise Pascal Universite Pierre et Marie Curie (Paris VI)
Copyright (C) 1993, 1994, 1995 Eric Youngdale
Copyright (C) 1993, 1994 by Hamish Macdonald
Copyright (C) 1993, 1994 Alain Knaff
Copyright (C) 1993 by Nigel Gamble
Copyright (C) 1993 Turtle Beach Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1993 Stephen Tweedie (sct@redhat.com) from
Copyright (C) 1993 Paul B. Monday
Copyright (C) 1993 Pascal Haible, Bruno Haible
Copyright (C) 1993 Linus Torvalds Support Gerhard Wichert, Siemens AG, July 1999
Copyright (C) 1993 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1993 Hamish Macdonald Greg Harp
Copyright (C) 1993 Hamish Macdonald
Copyright (C) 1993 Greg Harp Portions Brad Pepers
Copyright (C) 1993 Greg Harp Atari Support by Bjoern Brauel, Roman Hodek
Copyright (C) 1993 Bruno Haible
Copyright (C) 1993 Bjoern Brauel Roman Hodek
Copyright (C) 1993 -- 1997 Drew Eckhardt, Frederic Potter, David Mosberger-Tang
Copyright (C) 1992-1997, 2000-2003 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1992-1997, 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1992,1995,1997 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic 3163, |
Australia. E-mail billm@suburbia.net |
Copyright (C) 1992,1995 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic 3163, |
Australia. E-mail billm@jacobi.maths.monash.edu.au |
Copyright (C) 1992,1994,1997 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic 3163, |
Australia. E-mail billm@suburbia.net |
Copyright (C) 1992,1994,1995 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic 3163, |
Australia. E-mail billm@jacobi.maths.monash.edu.au |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993,1997 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic 3163,
Australia | E-mail billm@suburbia.net |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993,1995,1997 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic
3163, | Australia. E-mail billm@suburbia.net |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993,1995,1997 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic
3163, Australia | E-mail billm@suburbia.net |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993,1994,1997,1999 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond,
Vic 3163, | Australia. E-mail billm@melbpc.org.au |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993,1994,1997,1999 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond,
Vic 3163, Australia | E-mail billm@melbpc.org.au |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993,1994,1997 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic
3163, | Australia. E-mail billm@suburbia.net |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993,1994,1997 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic
3163, Australia | E-mail billm@suburbia.net |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993,1994,1996,1997,1999 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St,
Ormond, Vic 3163, Australia | E-mail billm@melbpc.org.au |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993,1994,1996,1997 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond,
Vic 3163, Australia | E-mail billm@suburbia.net |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993,1994,1996 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic
3163, Australia | E-mail billm@jacobi.maths.monash.edu.au |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993,1994,1995,1997 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond,
Vic 3163, | Australia. E-mail billm@suburbia.net |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993,1994,1995,1996,1997,1999 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St,
Ormond, Vic 3163, | Australia. E-mail billm@melbpc.org.au |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993,1994,1995 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic
3163, | Australia. E-mail billm@jacobi.maths.monash.edu.au |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993 | W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic 3163, |
Australia. E-mail billm@vaxc.cc.monash.edu.au |
Copyright (C) 1992,1993 by Michael K. Johnson
Copyright (C) 1992,1993 Rick Sladkey <jrs@world.std.com>
Copyright (C) 1992, Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1992, 1998-2006 Linus Torvalds, Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 1992, 1998-2004 Linus Torvalds, Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 1992, 1998 Linus Torvalds, Ingo Molnar
Copyright (C) 1992, 1994, 1995, 2000 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1992, 1994 by Theodore Ts'o.
Copyright (C) 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999 Theodore Ts'o
Copyright (C) 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995 Remy Card (card@masi.ibp.fr) Theodore Ts'o
(tytso@mit.edu)
Copyright (C) 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995 Remy Card (card@masi.ibp.fr) Laboratoire
MASI - Institut Blaise pascal Universite Pierre et Marie Curie (Paris VI)
Copyright (C) 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995 Remy Card (card@masi.ibp.fr) Laboratoire
MASI - Institut Blaise Pascal Universite Pierre et Marie Curie (Paris VI)
Copyright (C) 1992, 1993, 1994 Rick Sladkey
Copyright (C) 1992, 1993 Krishna Balasubramanian
Copyright (C) 1992 obz
Copyright (C) 1992 by Theodore Ts'o.
Copyright (C) 1992 by Linus TorvaldsDarren Senn
Copyright (C) 1992 by Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1992 by Jim Weigand and Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1992 W. Metzenthen, 22 Parker St, Ormond, Vic 3163, | Australia.
E-mail billm@vaxc.cc.monash.edu.au |
Copyright (C) 1992 Tommy Thorn
Copyright (C) 1992 Theodore Ts'o
Copyright (C) 1992 Ross Biro
Copyright (C) 1992 Rick Sladkey
Copyright (C) 1992 Remy Card (card@masi.ibp.fr) Laboratoire MASI
Copyright (C) 1992 Remy Card (card@masi.ibp.fr)
Copyright (C) 1992 Linus Torvalds Gary Thomas
Copyright (C) 1992 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1992 Lawrence Foard
Copyright (C) 1992 Krishna Balasubramanian and Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1992 Krishna Balasubramanian
Copyright (C) 1992 Eric Youngdale
Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt <drew@colorado.edu>
Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt
Copyright (C) 1992 Doug Evans
Copyright (C) 1992 David Giller, rafetmad@oxy.edu 1994, 1995 Eberhard Mönkeberg,
emoenke@gwdg.de 1996 David van Leeuwen, david@tm.tno.nl 1997, 1998 Erik
Andersen, andersee@debian.org 1998-2002 Jens Axboe, axboe@suse.de
Copyright (C) 1992 David Giller
Copyright (C) 1992 Darren Senn
Copyright (C) 1992 - 1997, 2000-2006 Silicon Graphics, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 1992 - 1997, 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1992 - 1997, 1999, 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1992 - 1997, 1999, 2000 Silcon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1992 - 1997, 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1992 - 1997, 1999 Silcon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1992 - 1997 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1991-2018 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 1991-2002 SciTech Software, Inc. All rights reserved.
Copyright (C) 1991-2002 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1991-1998 Linus Torvalds Feb 1998 Russell King
Copyright (C) 1991-1998 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1991,92,1995-99,2002,2004 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1991,1996 Free Software Foundation
Copyright (C) 1991,1992 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1991, 1997, 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 2002 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1999 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1996 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1995, 1999, 2000 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1995 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1997, 2004 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Contributed by Torbjorn Granlund (tege@sics.se).
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1996, 1998, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003 Free
Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 Linus Torvalds 29.12.95, Stephen Tweedie
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992, 1993 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992 Linux Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992 Linus Torvalds. Andrew Stribblehill <ads@wompom.org>,
2005.
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992 Linus Torvalds.
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992 Linus Torvalds changes by Thomas Schoebel-Theuer
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992 Linus Torvalds 1997-11-28 by Richard Henderson
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992 Linus Torvalds 1995 Jay Estabrook
Copyright (C) 1991, 1992 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (C) 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1990, 1999, 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc. 2004
Copyright (C) 1990, 1999, 2000 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1990, 1999 by Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1990, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1990 - 1992, 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1989, 92-98, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1989, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1989 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1989 - 1997 Carnegie Mellon University
Copyright (C) 1985 MIPS Computer Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 05/1998 Peter Maydell <pmaydell@chiark.greenend.org.uk>
Copyright (2016) Chen-Yu Tsai
Copyright (2004, 2005) Ingo Molnar
Copyright (2004) Linus Torvalds
Copyright	2009 Johannes Berg <johannes@sipsolutions.net>
Copyright	(C) 2017 Madhavan Srinivasan, IBM Corporation.
Copyright	(C) 2015 Linaro Ltd.
Copyright	(C) 2001 Russell King
COPYRIGHT (c) 2013, Intel Corporation.
COPYRIGHT (c) 2008 The Regents of the University of Michigan ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
COPYRIGHT (C) by L. Wassmann <LW@KARO-electronics.de>
COPYRIGHT (C) 2014-2022 VMware, Inc., Palo Alto, CA., USA
COPYRIGHT (C) 2005 SYNOPSYS, INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
COPYRIGHT (C) 2001-2004 by Agere Systems Inc. All Rights Reserved
COPYRIGHT	(C) 1999-2004 Max Krasnyansky <maxk@qualcomm.com>
Alexander Shiyan, <shc_work@mail.ru>
(c) mycable GmbH
(c) liplianin@me.by
(c) g.marco@freenet.de
(c) Xilinx Inc.
(c) Vojtech Pavlik and Dan Streetman and Richard Lemon
(c) Vojtech Pavlik and Dan Streetman
(c) Valentine Barshak <vbarshak@ru.mvista.com> Stefan Roese <sr@denx.de> Sylvain
Munaut <tnt@246tNt.com>
(c) UCB 1986-1988, Fred N. van Kempen, <waltje@uWalt.NL.Mugnet.ORG>
(c) UCB 1986-1988  Ross Biro Fred N. van Kempen, <waltje@uWalt.NL.Mugnet.ORG>
Florian La Roche, Jonathan Layes <layes@loran.com> Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo
<acme@conectiva.com.br>
(c) UCB 1982-1988 Ross Biro Fred N. van Kempen, <waltje@uWalt.NL.Mugnet.ORG>
(c) Tundra Semiconductor Corp. Author: Alex Bounine (alexandreb@tundra.com)
Author: Roy Zang (tie-fei.zang@freescale.com)
(c) Tias Guns
(c) Sven Geggus <sven@geggus.net>
(c) Stefan Eletzhofer (stefan.eletzhofer@inquant.de) 2003,4
(c) Secret Lab Technologies, Ltd.
(c) Rebel.com, 1998-1999
(c) Rebel.COM, 1998,1999
(c) Rebel.COM, 1998
(c) Philip Blundell, 2001
(c) Philip Blundell, 1999, 2001
(c) Philip Blundell, 1998-1999
(c) Philip Blundell, 1998, 2001
(c) Peter Meerwald <pmeerw@pmeerw.net>
(c) Paul Mackerras, 1996
(c) MontaVista, Software, Inc. 
(c) MontaVista, Software, Inc.
(c) MontaVista Software, LLC.
(c) MontaVista Software, Inc. Vitaly Bordug <vbordug@ru.mvista.com>
(c) MontaVista Software, Inc. Daniel Walker <dwalker@mvista.com>
(c) MontaVista Software, Inc.
(c) Michael AK Tesch (tesch@cs.wisc.edu)
(c) Mellanox Technologies, 2016
(c) Marvell International Ltd.
(c) Martin Sperl <kernel@martin.sperl.org>
(c) M-Systems
(c) Jason Wessel - Wind River Systems, Inc.
(c) Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
(c) Jan-Simon Möller (dl9pf@gmx.de)
(c) Jan Andersson <jan@gaisler.com>
(c) Intel Research Cambridge
(c) INTRACOM S.A. Greece.
(c) Gerd Hoffmann <kraxel@redhat.com>
(c) GE Intelligent Platforms Embedded Systems, Inc.
(c) G. Liakhovetski g.liakhovetski@gmx.de
(c) G. Liakhovetski <g.liakhovetski@gmx.de>
(c) Deep Root Systems, LLC.
(c) David Miller davem@redhat.com
(c) Daniel Phillips, 2001
(c) Dan Malek <dan@embeddedalley.com>
(c) Copyright © 2003-2006, Marvell International Ltd. All Rights Reserved
(c) Copyright Red Hat Inc 2002
(c) Copyright Matthew Wilcox <willy@debian.org> 2001-2002
(c) Copyright Huw Davies <huw@codeweavers.com>, 2015
(c) Copyright Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P., 2008
(c) Copyright Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P., 2007, 2008
(c) Copyright Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P., 2007
(c) Copyright Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P., 2006, 2008
(c) Copyright Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P., 2006 - 2008
(c) Copyright Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P., 2006
(c) Copyright Dell 2004. All Rights Reserved.
(c) Copyright Adaptec, Inc. 2002 to 2004. All Rights Reserved.
(c) Copyright 2022 D. Müller <d.mueller@elsoft.ch>.
(c) Copyright 2022 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All the rights reserved
(c) Copyright 2021 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP.
(c) Copyright 2020 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All the rights reserved
(c) Copyright 2019-2020 Texas Instruments Inc. All rights reserved.
(c) Copyright 2018 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP Thomas Mingarelli
<thomas.mingarelli@hpe.com>
(c) Copyright 2016 Socionext Inc. All rights reserved.
(c) Copyright 2016 Oracle Corporation
(c) Copyright 2014 Panasonic Corporation
(c) Copyright 2013 Guenter Roeck converted to watchdog infrastructure
(c) Copyright 2013 Datera, Inc.
(c) Copyright 2010-2013 Datera, Inc.
(c) Copyright 2010 Novell, Inc.
(c) Copyright 2010 Intel Corporation
(c) Copyright 2009-2013 Datera, Inc.
(c) Copyright 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
(c) Copyright 2009 Google Inc., All Rights Reserved.
(c) Copyright 2008-2013 Datera, Inc.
(c) Copyright 2008-2011 Wim Van Sebroeck <wim@iguana.be>.
(c) Copyright 2008-2011 Alan Cox <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>, All Rights
Reserved.
(c) Copyright 2008, RealTEK Technologies Inc. All Rights Reserved.
(c) Copyright 2008 Wim Van Sebroeck <wim@iguana.be>.
(c) Copyright 2008 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Bjorn Helgaas
<bjorn.helgaas@hp.com>
(c) Copyright 2007-2013 Datera, Inc.
(c) Copyright 2007-2008 Xilinx Inc. All rights reserved.
(c) Copyright 2007 Étienne Bersac <bersace@gmail.com>
(c) Copyright 2007 Vlad Drukker <vlad@storewiz.com>
(c) Copyright 2007 Red Hat <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>
(c) Copyright 2007 Oliver Schuster <olivers137@aol.com>
(c) Copyright 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Contributed by
Peter Keilty <peter.keilty@hp.com>
(c) Copyright 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Bjorn Helgaas
<bjorn.helgaas@hp.com>
(c) Copyright 2007 Gilles GIGAN <gilles.gigan@jcu.edu.au>
(c) Copyright 2006-2019 Helge Deller
(c) Copyright 2006-2013 Datera, Inc.
(c) Copyright 2006-2011 Wim Van Sebroeck <wim@iguana.be>.
(c) Copyright 2006-2009 Wim Van Sebroeck <wim@iguana.be>.
(c) Copyright 2006, 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Bjorn Helgaas
<bjorn.helgaas@hp.com>
(c) Copyright 2006 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Bjorn Helgaas
<bjorn.helgaas@hp.com>
(c) Copyright 2006 Calin A. Culianu <calin@ajvar.org>, All Rights Reserved.
(c) Copyright 2006 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp. benh@kernel.crashing.org>
(c) Copyright 2005-2013 Datera, Inc.
(c) Copyright 2005-2006 Red Hat
(c) Copyright 2005 Webcon, Inc.
(c) Copyright 2005 Jose Goncalves <jose.goncalves@inov.pt>
(c) Copyright 2005 Google Inc., All Rights Reserved.
(c) Copyright 2005 David Härdeman <david@2gen.com>
(c) Copyright 2005 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp. benh@kernel.crashing.org>
(c) Copyright 2005 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp. <benh@kernel.crashing.org>
(c) Copyright 2005 4G Systems <info@4g-systems.biz>
(c) Copyright 2004-2007 Wim Van Sebroeck <wim@iguana.be>.
(c) Copyright 2004, Red Hat Inc. <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk> Francois Romieu
(c) Copyright 2004 Xilinx Inc., Systems Engineering Group
(c) Copyright 2004 Naresh Kumar Inna <knaresh at india x hp x com>
(c) Copyright 2004 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Bob Picco
<robert.picco@hp.com>
(c) Copyright 2004 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Bjorn Helgaas
<bjorn.helgaas@hp.com>
(c) Copyright 2004 Google Inc.
(c) Copyright 2004 Benjamin Herrenschmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org), IBM Corp.
(c) Copyright 2003-2013 Datera, Inc.
(c) Copyright 2003-2008 Xilinx Inc. All rights reserved.
(c) Copyright 2003-2007 Xilinx Inc. All rights reserved.
(c) Copyright 2003-2007 Wim Van Sebroeck <wim@iguana.be>.
(c) Copyright 2003,2007 Pádraig Brady <P@draigBrady.com>
(c) Copyright 2003, 2006 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Alex
Williamson <alex.williamson@hp.com> Bjorn Helgaas <bjorn.helgaas@hp.com>
(c) Copyright 2003 Red Hat Inc <jgarzik@redhat.com>
(c) Copyright 2002-2013 Datera, Inc.
(c) Copyright 2002-2010, Ralink Technology, Inc.
(c) Copyright 2002-2005 Hewlett-Packard Company
(c) Copyright 2002-2005 Alex Williamson
(c) Copyright 2002-2003 Grant Grundler
(c) Copyright 2002, 2005 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. David
Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com> Bjorn Helgaas <bjorn.helgaas@hp.com>
(c) Copyright 2002, 2004 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Khalid Aziz
<khalid.aziz@hp.com> Bjorn Helgaas <bjorn.helgaas@hp.com>
(c) Copyright 2002, 2003, 2004 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Khalid
Aziz <khalid.aziz@hp.com> Alex Williamson <alex.williamson@hp.com> Bjorn Helgaas
<bjorn.helgaas@hp.com>
(c) Copyright 2002, 2003 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Bjorn Helgaas
<bjorn.helgaas@hp.com>
(c) Copyright 2002 Zwane Mwaikambo <zwane@commfireservices.com>
(c) Copyright 2002 Xilinx Inc., Systems Engineering Group
(c) Copyright 2002 Ryan Bradetich
(c) Copyright 2002 Robert Schwebel <r.schwebel@pengutronix.de>
(c) Copyright 2002 Rob Radez <rob@osinvestor.com>
(c) Copyright 2002 Justin Cormack <justin@street-vision.com>
(c) Copyright 2002 Hewlett-Packard Company
(c) Copyright 2002 Guido Guenther <agx@sigxcpu.org>, All Rights Reserved.
(c) Copyright 2002 David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com)
(c) Copyright 2001-2009 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
(c) Copyright 2001-2003, 2005 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. David
Mosberger-Tang <davidm@hpl.hp.com> Bjorn Helgaas <bjorn.helgaas@hp.com>
(c) Copyright 2001 Scott Jennings <linuxdrivers@oro.net>
(c) Copyright 2001 Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@ascensit.com>
(c) Copyright 2001 Red Hat Inc.	<alan@redhat.com>
(c) Copyright 2001 Red Hat Inc.
(c) Copyright 2001 Red Hat Inc
(c) Copyright 2001 Randolph Chung <tausq@debian.org>
(c) Copyright 2001 Matthew Wilcox for Hewlett-Packard
(c) Copyright 2001 Grant Grundler (c) Copyright 2001 Hewlett-Packard Company
(c) Copyright 2001 Charles Howes <chowes@vsol.net>
(c) Copyright 2001 Ascensit <support@ascensit.com>
(c) Copyright 2000-2004 Hewlett-Packard Company
(c) Copyright 2000-2004 Grant Grundler <grundler @ parisc-linux x org>
(c) Copyright 2000-2001 Marek Michalkiewicz <marekm@linux.org.pl>
(c) Copyright 2000, Grant Grundler
(c) Copyright 2000 kernel concepts <nils@kernelconcepts.de>, All Rights
Reserved. https://www.kernelconcepts.de
(c) Copyright 2000 The Puffin Group Inc.
(c) Copyright 2000 Ryan Bradetich
(c) Copyright 2000 Red Hat Software
(c) Copyright 2000 Philipp Rumpf <prumpf@tux.org>
(c) Copyright 2000 Oleg Drokin <green@crimea.edu> Alan Cox
<alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>
(c) Copyright 2000 Oleg Drokin <green@crimea.edu>
(c) Copyright 2000 John Marvin
(c) Copyright 2000 Jakob Oestergaard <jakob@unthought.net>
(c) Copyright 2000 Jakob Oestergaard <jakob@ostenfeld.dk>
(c) Copyright 2000 Hewlett-Packard Company
(c) Copyright 2000 Helge Deller <hdeller@redhat.com>
(c) Copyright 2000 Helge Deller
(c) Copyright 2000 Grant Grundler
(c) Copyright 2000      kernel concepts <nils@kernelconcepts.de> developed for
Jentro AG, Haar/Munich (Germany)
(c) Copyright 1999,2000 Hewlett-Packard Company
(c) Copyright 1999,2000 Grant Grundler
(c) Copyright 1999, Thomas Davis, tadavis@lbl.gov
(c) Copyright 1999, 2000 Red Hat Software
(c) Copyright 1999 The Puffin Group Inc.
(c) Copyright 1999 SuSE GmbH
(c) Copyright 1999 Red Hat Software
(c) Copyright 1999 Matthew Wilcox
(c) Copyright 1999 Hewlett-Packard Company
(c) Copyright 1999 Hewlett-Packard
(c) Copyright 1999 Grant Grundler for Hewlett-Packard
(c) Copyright 1999 Grant Grundler
(c) Copyright 1999 Alex deVries for The Puffin Group
(c) Copyright 1998 Rebel.com (Woody Suwalski <woody@netwinder.org>)
(c) Copyright 1997 by Carsten Paeth (calle@calle.in-berlin.de)
(c) Copyright 1996-1997 Alan Cox <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>, All Rights
Reserved.
(c) Copyright 1996 Alan Cox <alan@redhat.com>, All Rights Reserved.
http://www.redhat.com
(c) Copyright 1996 Alan Cox <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>, All Rights Reserved.
(c) Copyright 1996 Alan Cox <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>
(c) Copyright 1995 Simon "Guru Aleph-Null" Janes NCM: Network and Communications
Management, Inc.
(c) Copyright 1995 Alan Cox <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>
(c) Copyright 1995      CymruNET Ltd Innovation Centre Singleton Park Swansea
Wales UK SA2 8PP
(c) Amit S. Kale and 2003-2005 (c) MontaVista Software, Inc.
(c) Aeroflex Gaisler AB
(c) 2021, Bence Csókás <bence98@sch.bme.hu>
(c) 2020 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab+huawei@kernel.org>
(c) 2018 Oleksandr Andrushchenko, EPAM Systems Inc.
(c) 2018 Eyal Birger <eyal.birger@gmail.com>
(c) 2017, Jonathan Corbet <corbet@lwn.net> sayli karnik
<karniksayli1995@gmail.com>
(c) 2017 Tobin C. Harding <me@tobin.cc>
(c) 2017 Stefano Stabellini <stefano@aporeto.com>
(c) 2017 Linaro Ltd.
(c) 2016 Petr Kulhavy, Barix AG <petr@barix.com>
(c) 2016 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab+samsung@kernel.org>
(c) 2016 Davidlohr Bueso <dave@stgolabs.net> Further wakeup optimizations,
documentation
(c) 2016 Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
(c) 2015, Quentin Casasnovas <quentin.casasnovas@oracle.com>
(c) 2015 ST Microelectronics
(c) 2015 - Jeff Layton <jeff.layton@primarydata.com>
(c) 2014-2017 Valentin Rothberg <valentinrothberg@gmail.com>
(c) 2014, Sasha Levin <sasha.levin@oracle.com>
(c) 2014 Volkswagen Group Research
(c) 2014 Stefan Hengelein <stefan.hengelein@fau.de>
(c) 2014 ST Microelectronics
(c) 2014 Randy C. Will <randall.will@gmail.com>
(c) 2014 Luka Perkov <luka@openwrt.org>
(c) 2014 Jeff Layton <jlayton@primarydata.com>
(c) 2014 Daniel Mack <linux@zonque.org>
(c) 2013 ST Microelectronics
(c) 2013 Jonas Gorski <jogo@openwrt.org>
(c) 2013 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
(c) 2013 Digital Devices GmbH Germany. All rights reserved
(c) 2013 Deutsche Telekom Innovation Laboratories
(c) 2013 Daniel Mack <zonque@gmail.com>
(c) 2012-2013 - Mauro Carvalho Chehab
(c) 2012 Viresh Kumar <viresh.kumar@linaro.org>
(c) 2012 Frank Schäfer <fschaefer.oss@googlemail.com>
(c) 2011-12 liran <jli11@intersil.com> [Intersil|Techwell China]
(c) 2011 Volkswagen Group Research Authors: Michal Sojka <sojkam1@fel.cvut.cz>
Pavel Pisa <pisa@cmp.felk.cvut.cz> Rostislav Lisovy <lisovy@gmail.cz> Funded by:
Volkswagen Group Research
(c) 2011 Ondrej Zary <linux@rainbow-software.org>
(c) 2011 Manuel Lauss <manuel.lauss@googlemail.com>
(c) 2011 Jiri Olsa <jolsa@redhat.com>
(c) 2011 Corentin Chary <corentin.chary@gmail.com>
(c) 2011 Arvid Brodin <arvid.brodin@enea.com>
(c) 2010-2018 Joe Perches <joe@perches.com>
(c) 2010-2012 ST Microelectronics
(c) 2010, Tom Zanussi <tzanussi@gmail.com> 
(c) 2010, Tom Zanussi <tzanussi@gmail.com>
(c) 2010, Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
(c) 2010 Nikolaus Voss, Weinmann Medical GmbH
(c) 2010 Manfred Spraul <manfred@colorfullife.com>
(c) 2010 Arnaud Patard <arnaud.patard@rtp-net.org>
(c) 2010 Arnaud Patard <apatard@mandriva.com>
(c) 2010 Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
(c) 2009,2010 Dick Streefland <dick@streefland.net>
(c) 2009, Tom Zanussi <tzanussi@gmail.com>
(c) 2009, Mel Gorman <mel@csn.ul.ie>
(c) 2009, 2010 Nvidia Graphics Pvt. Ltd.
(c) 2009 Steven Toth <stoth@kernellabs.com>
(c) 2009 NetApp. All Rights Reserved.
(c) 2009 Manuel Lauss <manuel.lauss@googlemail.com>
(c) 2009 Kristoffer Ericson <kristoffer.ericson@gmail.com>
(c) 2009 Gerd Hoffmann <kraxel@redhat.com>
(c) 2009 Dmitry Artamonow <mad_soft@inbox.ru>
(c) 2009 Daniel Mack <daniel@caiaq.de>
(c) 2009 Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
(c) 2008-2011 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
(c) 2008-2011 Manuel Lauss <manuel.lauss@googlemail.com>
(c) 2008-2010 Andy Whitcroft <apw@canonical.com>
(c) 2008, Steven Rostedt <srostedt@redhat.com>
(c) 2008 Xilinx, Inc.
(c) 2008 Wind River Systems, Inc.
(c) 2008 Wind River Systems, Inc
(c) 2008 Steven Toth <stoth@linuxtv.org>
(c) 2008 Simtec Electronics
(c) 2008 Nobuhiro Iwamatsu <iwamatsu.nobuhiro@renesas.com>
(c) 2008 NetApp. All Rights Reserved.
(c) 2008 Mijhail Moreyra <mijhail.moreyra@gmail.com>
(c) 2008 Manuel Lauss <mano@roarinelk.homelinux.net>
(c) 2008 Devin Heitmueller <devin.heitmueller@gmail.com>
(c) 2008 Daniel Mack <daniel@caiaq.de>
(c) 2008 Dan Williams <dcbw@redhat.com>
(c) 2008 Alexey Starikovskiy <astarikovskiy@suse.de>
(c) 2008 Aidan Thornton <makosoft@googlemail.com>
(c) 2007-2011 MSC Vertriebsges.m.b.H., Manuel Lauss <manuel.lauss@gmail.com>
(c) 2007-2009 MSC Vertriebsges.m.b.H., Manuel Lauss <manuel.lauss@gmail.com>
(c) 2007-2009 Jiri Kosina
(c) 2007-2008 MSC Vertriebsges.m.b.H., Manuel Lauss <manuel.lauss@gmail.com>
(c) 2007,2008, Andy Whitcroft <apw@uk.ibm.com>
(c) 2007, Joe Perches <joe@perches.com>
(c) 2007 Trent Piepho <xyzzy@speakeasy.org>
(c) 2007 Timur Tabi <timur at freescale.com>, Freescale Semiconductor
(c) 2007 Sebastian Siewior <bigeasy@linutronix.de>
(c) 2007 Red Hat
(c) 2007 Ondrej Zajicek <santiago@crfreenet.org>
(c) 2007 Network Appliance, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
(c) 2007 Michal Januszewski <spock@gentoo.org>
(c) 2007 Michael Krufky
(c) 2007 Mauro Carvalho Chehab, <mchehab@kernel.org>
(c) 2007 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
(c) 2007 Manuel Lauss
(c) 2007 MSC Vertriebsges.m.b.H, Manuel Lauss <mlau@msc-ge.com>
(c) 2007 Juergen Beisert <j.beisert@pengutronix.de>
(c) 2007 Guido Guenther <agx@sigxcpu.org>
(c) 2007 Gerd Hoffmann <kraxel@suse.de>
(c) 2007 2011 Linux Foundation.
(c) 2006-2012 Patrick McHardy
(c) 2006-2009 Secret Lab Technologies Ltd Grant Likely
<grant.likely@secretlab.ca>
(c) 2006-2008 MSC Vertriebsges.m.b.H., Manuel Lauss
<mano@roarinelk.homelinux.net>
(c) 2006-2007 Ondrej Zajicek <santiago@crfreenet.org>
(c) 2006, 2007 by Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
(c) 2006 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC. Graeme Gregory
graeme.gregory@wolfsonmicro.com or linux@wolfsonmicro.com
(c) 2006 Ted Walther and John Sokol
(c) 2006 Simtec Electronics http://armlinux.simtec.co.uk/ Ben Dooks
<ben@simtec.co.uk>
(c) 2006 Red Hat
(c) 2006 Ondrej Zajicek <santiago@crfreenet.org>
(c) 2006 Mauro Carvalho Chehab, <mchehab@kernel.org>
(c) 2006 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
(c) 2006 Mauro Carvalho Chehab
(c) 2006 Keith Bennett <keith@mcs.st-and.ac.uk>
(c) 2006 Edgar Hucek <gimli@dark-green.com> by Gerd Knorr <kraxel@goldbach.in-
berlin.de>
(c) 2006 Bob Copeland <me@bobcopeland.com>
(c) 2006 Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>, IBM Corp.
(c) 2006 Andrew de Quincey
(c) 2005-2016 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
(c) 2005-2012 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(c) 2005-2008 MSC Vertriebsges.m.b.H, Manuel Lauss <mlau@msc-ge.com>
(c) 2005-2006 Nickolay V. Shmyrev <nshmyrev@yandex.ru>
(c) 2005-2006 Nickolay V. Shmyrev
(c) 2005-2006 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
(c) 2005,2006 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
(c) 2005,2006 Ricardo Cerqueira <v4l@cerqueira.org>
(c) 2005, Joel Schopp <jschopp@austin.ibm.com>
(c) 2005 by Hans J. Koch
(c) 2005 Thibaut VARENE <varenet@parisc-linux.org>
(c) 2005 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(c) 2005 MontaVista Software, Inc.
(c) 2005 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org> Gerd Knorr
<kraxel@bytesex.org> Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
(c) 2005 Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@kernel.org>
(c) 2005 Hartmut Hackmann
(c) 2005 Hans J. Koch
(c) 2005 Guillaume GOURAT / NexVision guillaume.gourat@nexvision.fr
(c) 2005 Daniel Drake <dsd@gentoo.org>
(c) 2005 Chris Pascoe <c.pascoe@itee.uq.edu.au>
(c) 2005 Benjamin Herrenschmidt, IBM Corp.
(c) 2005 Ben Dooks
(c) 2004-2005, Eugene Surovegin <ebs@ebshome.net>
(c) 2004-2005 Simtec Electronics http://www.simtec.co.uk/products/SWLINUX/ Ben
Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
(c) 2004, Dave Jones, Red Hat Inc.
(c) 2004, 2005 Daniel Drake <dsd@gentoo.org>
(c) 2004, 2005 Chris Pascoe <c.pascoe@itee.uq.edu.au>
(c) 2004 Szabolcs Gyurko
(c) 2004 Simtec Electronics Ben Dooks <ben@simtec.co.uk>
(c) 2004 Simtec Electronics
(c) 2004 Olivier Gournet <ogournet@anevia.com> & Andrew de Quincey
<adq_dvb@lidskialf.net>
(c) 2004 MontaVista Software, Inc.
(c) 2004 Mickael Hoerdt, <hoerdt@clarinet.u-strasbg.fr> LSIIT Laboratory,
Strasbourg, France
(c) 2004 Jelle Foks <jelle@foks.us>
(c) 2004 Jean-Philippe Andriot, <jean-philippe.andriot@6WIND.com> 6WIND, Paris,
France
(c) 2004 Ian Molton <spyro@f2s.com>
(c) 2004 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org> [SuSE Labs]
(c) 2004 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org> [SUSE Labs]
(c) 2004 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
(c) 2004 Chris Pascoe <c.pascoe@itee.uq.edu.au>
(c) 2004 Ben Dooks
(c) 2004 Andrew de Quincey <adq_dvb@lidskialf.net>
(c) 2004 Andrew de Quincey
(c) 2003-2012 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
(c) 2003-2009 Alan Stern (stern@rowland.harvard.edu)
(c) 2003-2006 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
(c) 2003-04 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org> [SuSE Labs]
(c) 2003,2004 Joerg Albert <joerg.albert@gmx.de>
(c) 2003,04 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org> [SUSE Labs]
(c) 2003, Benjamin Herrenscmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org)
(c) 2003, 2004 Andrew de Quincey & Robert Schlabbach
(c) 2003 Phytec Messtechnik GmbH <armlinux@phytec.de>
(c) 2003 Paul Mundt (lethal@linux-sh.org)
(c) 2003 Manfred Spraul <manfred@colorfullife.com>
(c) 2003 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org> [SuSE Labs]
(c) 2003 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
(c) 2003 Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org> Armin Kuster
<akuster@mvista.com> Johnnie Peters <jpeters@mvista.com>
(c) 2002-2007, Benjamin Herrenscmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org)
(c) 2002-2004 Russell King
(c) 2002-2004 Randolph Chung <tausq@debian.org>
(c) 2002,2003 Andi Kleen, SuSE Labs.
(c) 2002 Yurij Sysoev <yurij@naturesoft.net>
(c) 2002 Wolfgang Scherr <scherr@net4you.at>
(c) 2002 Thomas Kreiling <usbdev@sm04.de>
(c) 2002 Simon Munton
(c) 2002 Monta Vista Software Inc
(c) 2002 Manfred Spraul
(c) 2002 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
(c) 2002 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
(c) 2002 Alan Stern (stern@rowland.org)
(c) 2002 Alan Stern <stern@rowland.org>
(c) 2001-2004 FarSite Communications Ltd.
(c) 2001-2002 Petr Vandrovec <vandrove@vc.cvut.cz>
(c) 2001-2002 Denis Oliver Kropp <dok@directfb.org>
(c) 2001-2002 Denis Oliver Kropp <dok@convergence.de>
(c) 2001-2002 Andrey Ulanov <drey@rt.mipt.ru>
(c) 2001-04 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org> [SuSE Labs]
(c) 2001-03 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org> [SuSE Labs]
(c) 2001,02 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org> [SuSE Labs]
(c) 2001,02 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
(c) 2001, Dave Jones.
(c) 2001, 2006 IBM Corporation.
(c) 2001 Robert Siemer <Robert.Siemer@gmx.de>
(c) 2001 Red Hat Inc Lockless wakeup
(c) 2001 Micro Solutions Inc.
(c) 2001 Michael Eskin, Tom Zakrajsek
(c) 2001 Lineo, Inc. Greg Ungerer, gerg@snapgear.com Dave Miller,
dmiller@intellistor.comRob Scott, rscott@mtrob.fdns.net
(c) 2001 Daniel Phillips
(c) 2001  Dustin McIntire (dustin@sensoria.com)
(c) 2000-2004 Omnikey AG (http://www.omnikey.com/)
(c) 2000-2003 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
(c) 2000-2002 Ziglio Frediano, freddy77@angelfire.com
(c) 2000-2002 Petr Vandrovec <vandrove@vc.cvut.cz>
(c) 2000-2002 Matthew Dharm (mdharm-usb@one-eyed-alien.net)
(c) 2000-2002 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
(c) 2000-2001 Vojtech Pavlik	<vojtech@ucw.cz>
(c) 2000-03 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org> [SuSE Labs]
(c) 2000,2002 Ghozlane Toumi <gtoumi@laposte.net>
(c) 2000, 2001 Robert Baruch (autophile@starband.net)
(c) 2000 Yggdrasil Computing, Inc.
(c) 2000 Stephen J. Gowdy (SGowdy@lbl.gov)
(c) 2000 Stephane Alnet
(c) 2000 Russell King
(c) 2000 Manfred Spraul
(c) 2000 Justin Schoeman <justin@suntiger.ee.up.ac.za>
(c) 2000 Justin Schoeman
(c) 2000 Jimmie Mayfield (mayfield+usb@sackheads.org)
(c) 2000 Jimmie Mayfield (mayfield+datafab@sackheads.org)
(c) 2000 Interlan Communications
(c) 2000 Grant Grundler
(c) 2000 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org> Nov 2002: Martin Bene
<martin.bene@icomedias.com>
(c) 2000 Geert Uytterhoeven <geert@linux-m68k.org>
(c) 2000 Edward Betts <edward@debian.org>
(c) 2000 David L. Brown, Jr. (usb-storage@davidb.org)
(c) 2000 Crutcher Dunnavant <crutcher+kernel@datastacks.com>
(c) 2000 Compaq Computer Corporation. (Author: Jamey Hicks)
(c) 2000 Adam J. Richter (adam@yggdrasil.com), Yggdrasil Computing, Inc.
(c) 1999/2000 Henning Zabel <henning@uni-paderborn.de>
(c) 1999-2003 Matthew Dharm (mdharm-usb@one-eyed-alien.net)
(c) 1999-2003 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
(c) 1999-2002 Petr Vandrovec <vandrove@vc.cvut.cz>
(c) 1999-2002 Matthew Dharm (mdharm-usb@one-eyed-alien.net)
(c) 1999-2002 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
(c) 1999-2002 Gerd Knorr
(c) 1999-2001 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@goldbach.in-berlin.de>
(c) 1999--2000 Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>
(c) 1999,2000 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@goldbach.in-berlin.de>
(c) 1999, Rt-Control, Inc.
(c) 1999, 2000, 2009 Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
(c) 1999, 2000 Matthew Dharm (mdharm-usb@one-eyed-alien.net)
(c) 1999 Steve Ratcliffe <steve@parabola.demon.co.uk>
(c) 1999 R. Offermanns (rolf@offermanns.de) Michael Becker and Friedhelm Birth
(from TerraTec)
(c) 1999 Michael Gee (michael@linuxspecific.com)
(c) 1999 Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>
(c) 1999 Manfred Spraul <manfred@colorfullife.com> 2006 OpenVZ, SWsoft Inc.
Pavel Emelianov <xemul@openvz.org>
(c) 1999 Manfred Spraul <manfred@colorfullife.com>
(c) 1999 Ken-ichi Yaku <yaku@css1.kbnes.nec.co.jp> and Hidemi Kishimoto
<kisimoto@css1.kbnes.nec.co.jp> Zach Brown <zab@redhat.com> and Ingo Molnar
<mingo@redhat.com>
(c) 1999 Dragos Acostachioaie <dragos@iname.com> Andrea Arcangeli
<andrea@suse.de> Jean-Luc Boyard <jean-luc.boyard@siemens.fr> Ingo Molnar
<mingo@redhat.com> Christoph Rohland <cr@sap.com> Kanoj Sarcar <kanoj@sgi.com>
Christoph Rohland <cr@sap.com>
(c) 1999 Dragos Acostachioaie <dragos@iname.com>
(c) 1999 Dr. Henrik Seidel <Henrik.Seidel@gmx.de>
(c) 1999 Don Dugger <don.dugger@intel.com>
(c) 1999 David Huggins-Daines <dhd@debian.org>
(c) 1999 Dave S. Miller
(c) 1999 Ben Pfaff <pfaffben@debian.org> and Petr Vandrovec
<VANDROVE@vc.cvut.cz>
(c) 1999 Asit Mallick <asit.k.mallick@intel.com>
(c) 1999 Andreas Gal <gal@cs.uni-magdeburg.de>
(c) 1999 Alpha Processor, Inc.
(c) 1999 Al Smith <Al.Smith@aeschi.ch.eu.org>
(c) 1998-99, 2000, 2009 Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
(c) 1998-99, 2000 Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
(c) 1998-2002 Petr Vandrovec <vandrove@vc.cvut.cz>
(c) 1998-1999 by Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
(c) 1998-1999 Precision Insight, Inc.,
(c) 1998, 1999, 2000, 2009 Ingo Molnar <mingo@redhat.com>
(c) 1998, 1999 Philip Blundell
(c) 1998 Tom Lees <tom@lpsg.demon.co.uk> David Hinds
<dahinds@users.sourceforge.net>
(c) 1998 San Mehat (CCC) -July 1998 Russell King
(c) 1998 San Mehat (CCC) -July 1998
(c) 1998 Ruurd Reitsma <R.A.Reitsma@wbmt.tudelft.nl>  Norberto Pellici M.
Kirkwood
(c) 1998 Phil Blundell <philb@gnu.org>
(c) 1998 Petr Vandrovec, vandrove@vc.cvut.cz
(c) 1998 Mike Shaver.
(c) 1998 Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>
(c) 1998 Ingo Molnar
(c) 1998 Greg Alexander
(c) 1998 Grant R. Guenther <grant@torque.net>
(c) 1998 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@goldbach.in-berlin.de>
(c) 1998 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@cs.tu-berlin.de> Jaroslav Kysela <perex@perex.cz>
(c) 1998 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@cs.tu-berlin.de>
(c) 1998 Gerd Knorr
(c) 1998 David Huggins-Daines.
(c) 1998 David Campbell
(c) 1998 Andrew Apted <ajapted@netspace.net.au>
(c) 1997-8 Grant R. Guenther <grant@torque.net>
(c) 1997-8 Grant Guenther <grant@torque.net>
(c) 1997-2001 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
(c) 1997, Ronald van Cuijlenborg ronald.van.cuijlenborg@tip.nl or nutty@dds.nl
(c) 1997, 1998 Hauke Fath.
(c) 1997 by Andi Kleen
(c) 1997 Martin Mares <mj@atrey.karlin.mff.cuni.cz> Pavel Machek
<pavel@atrey.karlin.mff.cuni.cz>
(c) 1997 Martin Mares <mj@atrey.karlin.mff.cuni.cz>
(c) 1997 M. Kirkwood
(c) 1996-8 Grant R. Guenther <grant@torque.net>
(c) 1996-2003 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
(c) 1996, Ingmar Baumgart ingmar@gonzo.schwaben.de
(c) 1996 Hans-Joachim Widmaier - Rewritten
(c) 1996 Hans-Joachim Widmaier
(c) 1996 Grant R. Guenther grant@torque.net David Campbell
(c) 1995-2004 Russell King
(c) 1995-2002 Russell King
(c) 1995-2001 Russell King
(c) 1995-2000 R.M.King
(c) 1995-1998 Patrick Caulfield.
(c) 1995,1996 Grant R. Guenther, grant@torque.net
(c) 1995,1996 Christian Vogelgsang.
(c) 1995,1996 Christian Vogelgsang,
(c) 1995 by Michael Schlueter & Michael Marte
(c) 1995 Michael Neuffer neuffer@goofy.zdv.uni-mainz.de
(c) 1995 David Mosberger (davidm@cs.arizona.edu)
(c) 1995 Alan Cox, CymruNET Ltd <alan@cymru.net>
(c) 1995 Alan Cox, Building #3 <alan@redhat.com>
(c) 1995 Alan Cox, Building #3 <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>
(c) 1995 Alan Cox, <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk> Linux Consultancy and Custom
Driver Development
(c) 1994,1995,1996, Kevin Lentin K.Lentin@cs.monash.edu.au
(c) 1993 Tommy Frandsen
(c) 1993 Guido ten Dolle PE1NNZ
(c) 1988 Silicon Graphics
(C) by the respective authors
(C) by Vojtech Pavlik
(C) YOKOTA Hiroshi <yokota (at) netlab. is. tsukuba. ac. jp>
(C) Waldorf Electronics, Germany Written by Andreas Busse
(C) The elitist m68k Users(TM)
(C) Texas Instruments.
(C) Texas Instruments, Inc. https://www.ti.com/
(C) Texas Instruments, Inc.
(C) ST-Ericsson SA 2013
(C) SGI 2006, Christoph Lameter Cleaned
(C) SBE Inc.
(C) Rusty Russell, IBM 2002
(C) Peter T. Breuer (ptb@ot.uc3m.es) 2003
(C) Neil Horman <nhorman@tuxdriver.com>
(C) Nadia Yvette Chambers, April 2004
(C) Linux Foundation 2008-2013
(C) Linus Torvalds
(C) Len Brown <len.brown@intel.com>
(C) Leaguerme (Shenzhen) MicroElectronics Co., Ltd.
(C) Jiri Kosina
(C) Jens Axboe <jens.axboe@oracle.com> 2008
(C) Jean Tourrilhes.
(C) Jay Lan, SGI, 2006
(C) INESC 1998
(C) Dominik Brodowski <linux@brodo.de> 2003
(C) David S. Miller.
(C) David Hinds.
(C) David Hinds and the Linux wireless
(C) David Brownell
(C) DENX Software Engineering.
(C) Copyright Yggdrasil Computing, Inc. 2000 Adam J. Richter
(C) Copyright TOSHIBA CORPORATION 2007
(C) Copyright TOSHIBA CORPORATION 2004-2007 All Rights Reserved.
(C) Copyright TOSHIBA CORPORATION 2004-2005 All Rights Reserved.
(C) Copyright TOSHIBA CORPORATION 2000-2001, 2004-2007
(C) Copyright Steven King <sfking@fdwdc.com>
(C) Copyright Red Hat, Inc. 2005
(C) Copyright Red Hat Inc. 2017
(C) Copyright Randy Dunlap 2000
(C) Copyright Linus Torvalds 1999
(C) Copyright Linaro, Ltd. 2018
(C) Copyright Linaro Limited 2015
(C) Copyright Linaro 2016
(C) Copyright Linaro 2015
(C) Copyright Linaro 2014
(C) Copyright Linaro 2013 2015
(C) Copyright Linaro 2013
(C) Copyright Johannes Erdfelt 1999-2001
(C) Copyright IBM Deutschland Entwicklung GmbH 2007
(C) Copyright IBM Deutschland Entwicklung GmbH 2005-2007
(C) Copyright IBM Deutschland Entwicklung GmbH 2005
(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 2009
(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 2006. Author : Ram Pai (linuxram@us.ibm.com)
(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 2006-2008
(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 2006
(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 2005. Author : Ram Pai (linuxram@us.ibm.com)
(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 2005.
(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 2005
(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 2001-2005
(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 2001,2006
(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 1994, 2004 Authors: Colin DeVilbiss
(devilbis@us.ibm.com) Santiago Leon (santil@us.ibm.com) Dave Boutcher
(sleddog@us.ibm.com)
(C) Copyright IBM Corporation 1994, 2003 Authors: Colin DeVilbiss
(devilbis@us.ibm.com) Santiago Leon (santil@us.ibm.com) Dave Boutcher
(sleddog@us.ibm.com)
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2013
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2007 - Joy Latten <latten@us.ibm.com>
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2006
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2005-2008
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2005
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2004,2005 All Rights Reserved.
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2003, 2004
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2002, 2004
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2004
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 2001, 2003
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 1994, 2002. All Rights Reserved.
(C) Copyright IBM Corp. 1994, 2002.
(C) Copyright IBM 2020
(C) Copyright IBM 2015
(C) Copyright IBM 2014
(C) Copyright IBM 2012
(C) Copyright IBM 2005
(C) Copyright IBM 2004, 2005, 2006, 2012
(C) Copyright IBM 2003, 2004, 2005, 2012
(C) Copyright Gregory P. Smith 1999
(C) Copyright Greg Kroah-Hartman 2002-2003
(C) Copyright Embedded Alley Solutions, Inc 2005 Author: Pantelis Antoniou
<pantelis@embeddedalley.com>
(C) Copyright Deti Fliegl 1999
(C) Copyright David Gibson, IBM Corporation 2008.
(C) Copyright David Gibson, IBM Corporation 2001-2003.
(C) Copyright David Gibson, IBM Corp. 2002-2003.
(C) Copyright David Gibson, IBM Corp. 2001-2003.
(C) Copyright David Gibson <dwg@au1.ibm.com>, IBM Corporation. 2007.
(C) Copyright David Gibson <dwg@au1.ibm.com>, IBM Corporation. 2005.
(C) Copyright David Brownell 2000-2004
(C) Copyright David Brownell 2000-2002
(C) Copyright David Brownell 2000-2001
(C) Copyright AudioScience Inc. 2007
(C) Copyright AudioScience Inc. 2002
(C) Copyright AudioScience Inc. 1998-2010
(C) Copyright AudioScience Inc. 1998-2003
(C) Copyright AudioScience Inc. 1997-2003
(C) Copyright AudioScience Inc. 1996-2009
(C) Copyright Arm Holdings. 2017
(C) Copyright Andreas Gal 1999
(C) Copyright Al Viro 2002,2003
(C) Copyright Al Viro 2000, 2001
(C) Copyright 2021 - Mathieu Desnoyers <mathieu.desnoyers@efficios.com>
(C) Copyright 2020, Toshiba Corporation.
(C) Copyright 2020, Nobuhiro Iwamatsu <nobuhiro1.iwamatsu@toshiba.co.jp>
(C) Copyright 2020, 2021, Toshiba Corporation.
(C) Copyright 2020 Toshiba Electronic Devices & Storage Corporation
(C) Copyright 2020 TOSHIBA CORPORATION
(C) Copyright 2020 Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP
(C) Copyright 2020 Chen-Yu Tsai <wens@csie.org>
(C) Copyright 2020 Advantech Corporation, Inc
(C) Copyright 2020 - 2021, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2019-2020 Linaro Ltd
(C) Copyright 2019 - 2020, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2018, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2018 MIPS Tech LLC
(C) Copyright 2018 - Will Deacon <will.deacon@arm.com>
(C) Copyright 2018 - 2020, Toshiba Corporation.
(C) Copyright 2017-2018 - Mathieu Desnoyers <mathieu.desnoyers@efficios.com>
(C) Copyright 2017, Angelo Dureghello <angelo@sysam.it>
(C) Copyright 2017 Sootech SA
(C) Copyright 2017 - 2021, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2016-2018 Red Hat, Inc
(C) Copyright 2016-2018 Benjamin Tissoires <benjamin.tissoires@gmail.com>
(C) Copyright 2016-2018 - Mathieu Desnoyers <mathieu.desnoyers@efficios.com>
(C) Copyright 2016-2018 - Boqun Feng <boqun.feng@gmail.com>
(C) Copyright 2016, Angelo Dureghello <angelo@sysam.it>
(C) Copyright 2016 Valentin Longchamp, Keymile AG,
valentin.longchamp@keymile.com
(C) Copyright 2016 Stephen Just <stephenjust@gmail.com>
(C) Copyright 2016 Intel Corporation Author: Tim Chen
<tim.c.chen@linux.intel.com>
(C) Copyright 2016 Intel Corporation
(C) Copyright 2016 - 2021, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2016 - 2020, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2016 - 2018, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2015 Intel Corporation
(C) Copyright 2015 Intel Corp.
(C) Copyright 2015 Hewlett-Packard Enterprise Development LP
(C) Copyright 2015 - 2021, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2014-2018 ARM Limited. All rights reserved.
(C) Copyright 2014, 2015 Linaro Ltd. Author: Ashwin Chaugule
<ashwin.chaugule@linaro.org>
(C) Copyright 2014 Valentin Longchamp, Keymile AG,
valentin.longchamp@keymile.com
(C) Copyright 2014 Intel Corporation Author: David Cohen
<david.a.cohen@linux.intel.com>
(C) Copyright 2014 Intel Corporation
(C) Copyright 2014 David Mosberger-Tang <davidm@egauge.net>
(C) Copyright 2014 Christophe Vu-Brugier <cvubrugier@fastmail.fm>
(C) Copyright 2014 - 2021, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2014 - 2020 Intel Corporation
(C) Copyright 2014 - 2015, Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2013-2015 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
(C) Copyright 2013-2014,2018 Red Hat, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2013-2014 O2S GmbH <www.o2s.ch>
(C) Copyright 2013-2014 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
(C) Copyright 2013-2014 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
(C) Copyright 2013-2014 David Lanzendörfer <david.lanzendoerfer@o2s.ch>
(C) Copyright 2013, Jonas Jensen <jonas.jensen@gmail.com>
(C) Copyright 2013, 2015 Linaro Limited
(C) Copyright 2013 - 2014 Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2012, Steven king <sfking@fdwdc.com>
(C) Copyright 2012, Steven King <sfking@fdwdc.com>
(C) Copyright 2012, Greg Ungerer <gerg@uclinux.org>
(C) Copyright 2012, Greg Ungerer <gerg@uclinux.com>
(C) Copyright 2012 by Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix e.K.
(C) Copyright 2012 Marvell International Ltd. All Rights Reserved
(C) Copyright 2012 Intel Corporation Author: Dirk Brandewie
<dirk.j.brandewie@intel.com>
(C) Copyright 2011~2014 Bosch Sensortec GmbH All Rights Reserved
(C) Copyright 2011, Greg Ungerer <gerg@uclinux.org>
(C) Copyright 2011 (Alejandro Cabrera <aldaya@gmail.com>)
(C) Copyright 2010-2016 Reuuimlla Technology Co., Ltd. <www.reuuimllatech.com>
huangxin <huangxin@Reuuimllatech.com> Mylène Josserand <mylene.josserand@free-
electrons.com>
(C) Copyright 2010-2013 Datera, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2010-2012 IBM Corp.
(C) Copyright 2010, Tobias Klauser <tklauser@distanz.ch>
(C) Copyright 2010, Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
(C) Copyright 2010 Marvell International Ltd. All Rights Reserved
(C) Copyright 2010 Intel Corporation
(C) Copyright 2009-2011, Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
(C) Copyright 2009-2011 Faraday Technology Po-Yu Chuang <ratbert@faraday-
tech.com>
(C) Copyright 2009-2010 Nokia Siemens Networks, michael.lawnick.ext@nsn.com
(C) Copyright 2009, Texas Instruments, Inc. https://www.ti.com/
(C) Copyright 2009, Steven King <sfking@fdwdc.com>
(C) Copyright 2009, Philippe De Muyter (phdm@macqel.be)
(C) Copyright 2009, Greg Ungerer <gerg@uclinux.org>
(C) Copyright 2009, Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
(C) Copyright 2009, 2021 Intel Corporation
(C) Copyright 2009 Renesas Solutions Corp
(C) Copyright 2009 Marvell International Ltd. All Rights Reserved
(C) Copyright 2009 Intel Corporation Author: Jacob Pan (jacob.jun.pan@intel.com)
(C) Copyright 2009 Intel Corporation Author: Arjan van de Ven
<arjan@linux.intel.com>
(C) Copyright 2009 Intel Corporation
(C) Copyright 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. Andrew Patterson
<andrew.patterson@hp.com>
(C) Copyright 2008-2010,2015 Intel Corporation Author: Sreedhara DS
(sreedhara.ds@intel.com)
(C) Copyright 2008-2010 Intel Corporation Author: Sreedhara DS
(sreedhara.ds@intel.com)
(C) Copyright 2008, Thomas Chou <thomas@wytron.com.tw>
(C) Copyright 2008, 2012, 2021 Intel Corporation Author: Jacob Pan
(jacob.jun.pan@intel.com) Author: Sathyanarayanan Kuppuswamy
<sathyanarayanan.kuppuswamy@intel.com>
(C) Copyright 2008 Stefano Babic, DENX Software Engineering, sbabic@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2008 Magnus Damm
(C) Copyright 2008 Intel Corporation, Arjan van de Ven.
(C) Copyright 2008 Intel Corporation Author: Arjan van de Ven
<arjan@linux.intel.com>
(C) Copyright 2008 Intel Corporation
(C) Copyright 2008 Glauber Costa
(C) Copyright 2008 Applied Micro Circuits Corporation Victor Gallardo
<vgallardo@amcc.com> Adam Graham <agraham@amcc.com>
(C) Copyright 2007-2018 Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2007-2013 Michal Simek
(C) Copyright 2007-2012 PetaLogix Qld Pty Ltd
(C) Copyright 2007-2011 Reuuimlla Technology Co., Ltd.
(C) Copyright 2007-2011 Aaron Maoye <leafy.myeh@reuuimllatech.com>
(C) Copyright 2007-2009 Michal Simek
(C) Copyright 2007-2008 Xilinx, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2007-2008 TOSHIBA CORPORATION
(C) Copyright 2007, Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
(C) Copyright 2007, Axis Communications, Hans-Peter Nilsson (hp@axis.com)
(C) Copyright 2007, ATRON electronic GmbH, Jan Nikitenko
<jan.nikitenko@gmail.com>
(C) Copyright 2007, 2009 Tiago Vignatti <vignatti@freedesktop.org>
(C) Copyright 2007, 2008 Dmitry Baryshkov <dbaryshkov@gmail.com>
(C) Copyright 2007 Texas Instruments Karthik Dasu <karthik-dp@ti.com>
(C) Copyright 2007 TOSHIBA CORPORATION
(C) Copyright 2007 Rodolfo Giometti <giometti@enneenne.com>
(C) Copyright 2007 Paulo R. Zanoni <przanoni@gmail.com>
(C) Copyright 2007 OpenWrt.org, Florian Fainelli <florian@openwrt.org>
(C) Copyright 2007 Novell Inc.
(C) Copyright 2007 MIPS Technologies, Inc. written by Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-
mips.org>
(C) Copyright 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
(C) Copyright 2007 Gerald Van Baren, Custom IDEAS, vanbaren@cideas.com Pantelis
Antoniou <pantelis.antoniou@gmail.com> and Matthew McClintock
<msm@freescale.com>
(C) Copyright 2007 Gerald Van Baren, Custom IDEAS, vanbaren@cideas.com
(C) Copyright 2007 Ash Willis <ashwillis@programmer.net>
(C) Copyright 2006-2007, IBM Corporation
(C) Copyright 2006-2007, David Brownell
(C) Copyright 2006-2007 TOSHIBA CORPORATION
(C) Copyright 2006 TOSHIBA CORPORATION
(C) Copyright 2006 Sylvain Munaut <tnt@246tNt.com>
(C) Copyright 2006 Sven Anders, <anders@anduras.de> and Marcus Junker,
<junker@anduras.de>
(C) Copyright 2006 Red Hat Inc, All Rights Reserved Thomas Gleixner
(C) Copyright 2006 Ralf Baechle <ralf@linux-mips.org>
(C) Copyright 2006 Novell Inc.
(C) Copyright 2006 Nokia Corporation Igor Stoppa <igor.stoppa@nokia.com>
(C) Copyright 2006 Marvell International Ltd.
(C) Copyright 2006 IBM Corp.
(C) Copyright 2006 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
(C) Copyright 2005, Intec Automation, Mike Lavender (mike@steroidmicros)
(C) Copyright 2005, Intec Automation (mike@steroidmicros.com)
(C) Copyright 2005 Tundra Semiconductor Corp. Kong Lai, <kong.lai@tundra.com).
(C) Copyright 2005 Tundra Semiconductor Corp. Alex Bounine, <alexandreb at
tundra.com).
(C) Copyright 2005 Robert Love
(C) Copyright 2005 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 2005 Kyle McMartin <kyle@parisc-linux.org>
(C) Copyright 2005 Ian Molton <spyro@f2s.com>
(C) Copyright 2005 Greg Kroah-Hartman <gregkh@suse.de>
(C) Copyright 2005 Christoph Lameter, Silicon Graphics, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2005 Chris Humbert <mahadri-usb@drigon.com>
(C) Copyright 2005 Benjamin Herrenschmidt <benh@kernel.crashing.org>
(C) Copyright 2005 Andi Kleen
(C) Copyright 2005 4G Systems <info@4g-systems.biz>, All Rights Reserved.
http://www.4g-systems.biz
(C) Copyright 2005 - 2010 Paul Mundt
(C) Copyright 2004-2007 Alan Stern, stern@rowland.harvard.edu
(C) Copyright 2004, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
(C) Copyright 2004, 2005 Cavium Networks
(C) Copyright 2004 Texas Instruments, <www.ti.com> Richard Woodruff
<r-woodruff2@ti.com>
(C) Copyright 2004 Silicon Graphics, Inc. Jesse Barnes <jbarnes@sgi.com>
(C) Copyright 2004 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 2004 Lineo Solutions, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2004 Jon Smirl <jonsmirl@yahoo.com>
(C) Copyright 2004 John Lenz
(C) Copyright 2004 Alan Stern, stern@rowland.harvard.edu
(C) Copyright 2003-2007, Greg Ungerer <gerg@uclinux.org>
(C) Copyright 2003-2007, Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
(C) Copyright 2003-2006 Sven Anders <anders@anduras.de>
(C) Copyright 2003-2005, Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
(C) Copyright 2003, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
(C) Copyright 2003, 2004 Jamie Lokier
(C) Copyright 2003 Red Hat Inc, All Rights Reserved
(C) Copyright 2003 Red Hat Inc <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>
(C) Copyright 2003 Red Hat Inc
(C) Copyright 2003 Matthew Wilcox
(C) Copyright 2003 Hewlett-Packard
(C) Copyright 2003 Grant Grundler <grundler parisc-linux org>
(C) Copyright 2002-2012, Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
(C) Copyright 2002-2004, 2007 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
(C) Copyright 2002-2004 by David Brownell All Rights Reserved.
(C) Copyright 2002-2004 IBM Corp.
(C) Copyright 2002-2004 Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
(C) Copyright 2002,2004,2006 Greg Kroah-Hartman
(C) Copyright 2002,2004 IBM Corp.
(C) Copyright 2002,2004 Greg Kroah-Hartman
(C) Copyright 2002, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
(C) Copyright 2002 Red Hat Inc, All Rights Reserved
(C) Copyright 2002 Red Hat Inc <alan@redhat.com>
(C) Copyright 2002 Linus Torvalds Portions
(C) Copyright 2002 Hewlett-Packard Company
(C) Copyright 2002 David Brownell
(C) Copyright 2002 Christoph Hellwig
(C) Copyright 2002 Alan Cox <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>
(C) Copyright 2001-2019 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
(C) Copyright 2001-2006 Alex Zeffertt, Cambridge Broadband Ltd,
ajz@cambridgebroadband.com Ben Greear <greearb@candelatech.com>
(C) Copyright 2001-2003 by Geert Uytterhoeven <geert@linux-m68k.org>
(C) Copyright 2001-2002, SnapGear Inc., (www.snapgear.com)
(C) Copyright 2001-2002, SnapGear (www.snapgear.com)
(C) Copyright 2001, SnapGear (www.snapgear.com)
(C) Copyright 2001, Lineo Inc. (www.lineo.com)
(C) Copyright 2001, 2002 Rusty Russell IBM Corporation
(C) Copyright 2001, 2002 Ralf Baechle
(C) Copyright 2001 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 2001 John Marvin <jsm fc hp com>
(C) Copyright 2001 Brad Hards (bhards@bigpond.net.au)
(C) Copyright 2000-2010, Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
(C) Copyright 2000-2005, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
(C) Copyright 2000-2005 David Brownell
(C) Copyright 2000-2004 David Brownell <dbrownell@users.sourceforge.net>
(C) Copyright 2000-2002, Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
(C) Copyright 2000-2002 David Brownell <dbrownell@users.sourceforge.net>
(C) Copyright 2000-2001, Lineo Inc. (www.lineo.com)
(C) Copyright 2000-2001, Lineo (www.lineo.com)
(C) Copyright 2000-2001, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
(C) Copyright 2000, Lineo Inc. (www.lineo.com)
(C) Copyright 2000, Lineo (www.lineo.com)
(C) Copyright 2000, 2001 Wolfgang Denk, DENX Software Engineering, wd@denx.de.
(C) Copyright 2000 Yggdrasil Computing, Inc.  Adam Richter, adam@yggdrasil.com
(C) Copyright 2000 STMicroelectronics
(C) Copyright 2000 Oliver Neukum <Oliver.Neukum@lrz.uni-muenchen.de>
(C) Copyright 2000 Martin K. Petersen <mkp@linuxcare.com>
(C) Copyright 2000 Linuxcare, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2000 Linuxcare Canada, Inc.
(C) Copyright 2000 John Fremlin <vii@penguinpowered.com>
(C) Copyright 2000 Alex deVries <alex@onefishtwo.ca>
(C) Copyright 1999-2011, Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>.
(C) Copyright 1999-2006, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
(C) Copyright 1999-2006, Greg Ungerer <gerg@snapgear.com>
(C) Copyright 1999-2003, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
(C) Copyright 1999-2002 Johannes Erdfelt, johannes@erdfelt.com
(C) Copyright 1999-2001 Johannes Erdfelt
(C) Copyright 1999-2000, Moreton Bay (www.moretonbay.com)
(C) Copyright 1999-2000, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
(C) Copyright 1999-2000 Scott J. Bertin
(C) Copyright 1999-2000 Peter Pregler
(C) Copyright 1999-2000 Johannes Erdfelt <johannes@erdfelt.com>
(C) Copyright 1999,2000 Thomas Sailer <sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch>
(C) Copyright 1999, Rob Scott (rscott@mtrob.ml.org)
(C) Copyright 1999, Moreton Bay Ventures Pty Ltd.
(C) Copyright 1999, Lineo (www.lineo.com)
(C) Copyright 1999, Greg Ungerer (gerg@snapgear.com)
(C) Copyright 1999, 2000 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 1999 Thomas Sailer, sailer@ife.ee.ethz.ch
(C) Copyright 1999 Silicon Graphics, Inc.
(C) Copyright 1999 Roman Weissgaerber, weissg@vienna.at
(C) Copyright 1999 Roman Weissgaerber <weissg@vienna.at>
(C) Copyright 1999 Randy Dunlap.
(C) Copyright 1999 Randy Dunlap
(C) Copyright 1999 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 1999 Johannes Erdfelt
(C) Copyright 1999 Gregory P. Smith
(C) Copyright 1999 Georg Acher, acher@in.tum.de
(C) Copyright 1999 Deti Fliegl, deti@fliegl.de
(C) Copyright 1999 Deti Fliegl
(C) Copyright 1998-2000 by some Elitist 680x0 Users(TM)
(C) Copyright 1998 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 1997-1998 DAVICOM Semiconductor,Inc. All Rights Reserved.
(C) Copyright 1997 Thomas Schoebel-Theuer, Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 1997 Alain Malek Alain.Malek@cryogen.com)
(C) Copyright 1996, 97, 99, 2002, 03 Ralf Baechle
(C) Copyright 1996 Linus Torvalds Rick Gorton	<rick.gorton@alpha-processor.com>
(C) Copyright 1996 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 1995-2003 by Geert Uytterhoeven <geert@linux-m68k.org>
(C) Copyright 1995-1999 Tekram Technology Co., Ltd.
(C) Copyright 1995 by Geert Uytterhoeven, Peter De Schrijver
(C) Copyright 1995 by Geert Uytterhoeven <geert@linux-m68k.org>
(C) Copyright 1995 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 1995 1996, 2014 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 1995 1996 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 1995 - 1997 Marco van Wieringen - ELM Consultancy B.V.
(C) Copyright 1994 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright 1994 - 1997 Marco van Wieringen
(C) Copyright 1991-2000 Linus Torvalds
(C) Copyright (C) 2002	Greg Kroah-Hartman <greg@kroah.com>
(C) Copyright (C) 2000-2001	Hugh Blemings <hugh@blemings.org>
(C) Carnegie Mellon University
(C) COPYRIGHT 2019 ARM Limited. All rights reserved. Author: James.Qian.Wang
<james.qian.wang@arm.com>
(C) COPYRIGHT 2018 ARM Limited. All rights reserved. Author: James.Qian.Wang
<james.qian.wang@arm.com>
(C) COPYRIGHT 2016 ARM Limited. All rights reserved. Author: Liviu Dudau
<Liviu.Dudau@arm.com>
(C) COPYRIGHT 2016 ARM Limited. All rights reserved. Author: Brian Starkey
<brian.starkey@arm.com>
(C) COPYRIGHT 2013-2016 ARM Limited. All rights reserved.
(C) COPYRIGHT 2012-2013 ARM Limited. All rights reserved.
(C) COPYRIGHT 2010-2018 ARM Limited. All rights reserved.
(C) CC Computer Consultants GmbH, 2008
(C) CC Computer Consultants GmbH, 2007
(C) Benjamin Reed
(C) Balbir Singh, IBM Corp. 2006
(C) Alex Holden alex@linuxhacker.org> 1998.
(C) Adam Belay.
(C) 2021 Romain Perier
(C) 2020 Linutronix GmbH
(C) 2020 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
(C) 2020 Alexander Aring <alex.aring@gmail.com>
(C) 2019, Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
(C) 2019 by Lemonage Software GmbH Author: Lars Pöschel <poeschel@lemonage.de>
All rights reserved.
(C) 2019 Linus Walleij
(C) 2019 Daniel Palmer
(C) 2018 Uladzislau Rezki (Sony) <urezki@gmail.com>
(C) 2018 Mojatau, Alexander Aring <aring@mojatau.com>
(C) 2018 Linus Walleij
(C) 2017-2018 Synopsys, Inc. (www.synopsys.com)
(C) 2017 Red Hat GmbH Author: Florian Westphal <fw@strlen.de>
(C) 2017 Linus Walleij <linus.walleij@linaro.org>
(C) 2017 Hemant K Shaw, IBM Corporation.
(C) 2017 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
(C) 2017 Anju T Sudhakar, IBM Corporation.
(C) 2016 by Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
(C) 2016 Pengutronix, Alexander Aring <aar@pengutronix.de>
(C) 2016 Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo <acme@redhat.com>
(C) 2015-2018 Kevin Darbyshire-Bryant <kevin@darbyshire-bryant.me.uk>
(C) 2015-2016 Mathieu Poirier <mathieu.poirier@linaro.org>
(C) 2015-2016 Chunyan Zhang <zhang.chunyan@linaro.org>
(C) 2015 by Il Han <corone.il.han@gmail.com>
(C) 2015 Red Hat GmbH Author: Florian Westphal <fw@strlen.de>
(C) 2015 Pengutronix, Alexander Aring <aar@pengutronix.de>
(C) 2015 Borislav Petkov <bp@alien8.de>
(C) 2014-2015 Pratik Patel <pratikp@codeaurora.org>
(C) 2014 Sittisak <sittisaks@hotmail.com>
(C) 2014 Intel Corp., Rafael J. Wysocki <rafael.j.wysocki@intel.com>
(C) 2013 Viresh Kumar <viresh.kumar@linaro.org>
(C) 2013 James Chapman <jchapman@katalix.com>
(C) 2013 Daniel Borkmann <dborkman@redhat.com>
(C) 2013 Astaro GmbH & Co KG
(C) 2012-2014 by sysmocom - s.f.m.c. GmbH
(C) 2012-2013 by Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
(C) 2012 by Vyatta Inc. <http://www.vyatta.com>
(C) 2012 by Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
(C) 2012 by Lemonage GmbH Author: Lars Poeschel <poeschel@lemonage.de> All
rights reserved.
(C) 2012 by L. Grunenberg <contact@lgrunenberg.de>
(C) 2012 by Hans Schillstrom <hans.schillstrom@ericsson.com>
(C) 2012 Wolfram Sang, Pengutronix
(C) 2012 Sasha Levin <levinsasha928@gmail.com>
(C) 2012 Samsung
(C) 2012 Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
(C) 2012 MontaVista Software, LLC <source@mvista.com>
(C) 2012 Michel Lespinasse <walken@google.com>
(C) 2012 Google, Inc. Author: Kent Overstreet <koverstreet@google.com>
(C) 2012 Christoph Lameter <cl@linux.com>
(C) 2011 Thomas Renninger <trenn@suse.de>, Novell Inc.
(C) 2011 Thomas Renninger <trenn@novell.com> Novell Inc.
(C) 2011 The Chromium OS Authors
(C) 2011 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2011 Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
(C) 2011 Omnibond Systems
(C) 2011 MyungJoo Ham <myungjoo.ham@samsung.com>
(C) 2011 Linux Foundation, Christoph Lameter
(C) 2011 Intra2net AG <https://www.intra2net.com>
(C) 2011 Hans de Goede <hdegoede@redhat.com>
(C) 2011 DENX Software Engineering, Anatolij Gustschin <agust@denx.de>
(C) 2011 Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
(C) 2011 - 2014 Srivatsa S. Bhat <srivatsa.bhat@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
(C) 2010-2011 Thomas Graf <tgraf@redhat.com>
(C) 2010-2011 Red Hat, Inc.
(C) 2010,2011 Thomas Renninger <trenn@suse.de>, Novell Inc.
(C) 2010,2011 Thomas Renninger <trenn@suse.de>, Novell Inc
(C) 2010 Thomas Renninger <trenn@suse.de>
(C) 2010 Red Hat, Inc.
(C) 2010 Red Hat Inc Author: Michael S. Tsirkin <mst@redhat.com>
(C) 2010 Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
(C) 2010 Michael J. Cree
(C) 2010 Luotao Fu <l.fu@pengutronix.de> All rights reserved.
(C) 2010 Eric Dumazet
(C) 2010 Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
(C) 2010 Alan Stern <stern@rowland.harvard.edu>
(C) 2009-2011 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>, Novell Inc.
(C) 2009-2010 Nishanth Menon <nm@ti.com>, 德州仪器公司
(C) 2009-2010 Nishanth Menon <nm@ti.com>, Texas Instruments Incorporated
(C) 2009-2010 Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
(C) 2009 Valentin Sitdikov <v.sitdikov@gmail.com>
(C) 2009 Uwe Kleine-Koenig, Pengutronix
(C) 2009 Siemens AG
(C) 2009 Sascha Hauer, Pengutronix
(C) 2009 Samsung Electronics Author: Michal Nazarewicz (mina86@mina86.com)
(C) 2009 Google Inc. John(Jung-Ik) Lee <jilee@google.com>
(C) 2009 Daniel Mack <daniel@caiaq.de>
(C) 2009 Alexander Clouter <alex@digriz.org.uk>
(C) 2009 - Peter Kaestle peter piie.net https://piie.net 2009 Borislav Petkov
(C) 2008-2013 Christoph Lameter <cl@linux.com>
(C) 2008-2009 Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
(C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 by Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
(C) 2008, 2009 by Marc Kleine-Budde <kernel@pengutronix.de>
(C) 2008 Wolfson Microelectronics PLC.
(C) 2008 Vasiliy Leonenko <vasiliy.leonenko@gmail.com>
(C) 2008 Manuel Traut <manut@linutronix.de>
(C) 2008 Krzysztof Piotr Oledzki <ole@ans.pl>
(C) 2008 Korolev Alexey <akorolev@infradead.org>
(C) 2008 Anatolij Gustschin <agust@denx.de> DENX Software Engineering
(C) 2007-2012 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2007-2010 by Jan Engelhardt <jengelh@medozas.de>
(C) 2007,2011 Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
(C) 2007,2009,2010 Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
(C) 2007,2009 Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
(C) 2007,2008 Jochen Friedrich <jochen@scram.de>
(C) 2007,2008 Dmitry Baryshkov
(C) 2007, 2008, 2011, 2012 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2007, 2008 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2007 www.softwarebitmaker.com
(C) 2007 www.douglaskthompson.com
(C) 2007 sgi. Christoph Lameter.
(C) 2007 sgi, Christoph Lameter
(C) 2007 jetzbroadband (http://jetzbroadband.com)
(C) 2007 by Sebastian Claßen <sebastian.classen@freenet.ag>
(C) 2007 by Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2007 by Holger Schurig <hs4233@mail.mn-solutions.de>
(C) 2007 by Hans J. Koch <hjk@hansjkoch.de>
(C) 2007 aCarLab (India) Pvt. Ltd. (http://acarlab.com)
(C) 2007 Venkatesh Pallipadi <venkatesh.pallipadi@intel.com> Shaohua Li
<shaohua.li@intel.com> Adam Belay <abelay@novell.com>
(C) 2007 United Security Providers
(C) 2007 Sukadev Bhattiprolu <sukadev@us.ibm.com>, IBM
(C) 2007 SoftwareBitMaker
(C) 2007 SGI, Christoph Lameter
(C) 2007 Rodolfo Giometti
(C) 2007 Red Hat, Inc.
(C) 2007 Red Hat Inc
(C) 2007 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>
(C) 2007 Pavel Emelyanov <xemul@openvz.org>, OpenVZ, SWsoft Inc.
(C) 2007 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2007 Montavista Software, Inc. Vitaly Bordug <vitb@kernel.crashing.org>
(C) 2007 Mike Galbraith <efault@gmx.de>
(C) 2007 Michel Benoit
(C) 2007 Martin K. Petersen <mkp@mkp.net>
(C) 2007 Linux Networx (http://lnxi.com)
(C) 2007 Laszlo Attila Toth <panther@balabit.hu>
(C) 2007 Kees Lemmens
(C) 2007 Hans J. Koch <hjk@hansjkoch.de>
(C) 2007 Google, Inc.
(C) 2007 EADS Astrium
(C) 2007 Dmitry Adamushko <dmitry.adamushko@gmail.com>
(C) 2007 Cypress
(C) 2007 Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz
(C) 2007 Alexander Shishkin <virtuoso@slind.org>
(C) 2006-2012 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2006-2012 Patrick McHardy
(C) 2006-2010 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2006-2009 VIA Technology, Inc.
(C) 2006-2008 by Openmoko, Inc. Author: Harald Welte <laforge@openmoko.org>
Balaji Rao <balajirrao@openmoko.org> All rights reserved.
(C) 2006-2008 by Openmoko, Inc. Author: Balaji Rao <balajirrao@openmoko.org> All
rights reserved.
(C) 2006-2008 by Openmoko, Inc. All rights reserved.
(C) 2006-2008 Takashi Iwai <tiwai@suse.de>
(C) 2006-2008 Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
(C) 2006-2007 Venkatesh Pallipadi <venkatesh.pallipadi@intel.com> Shaohua Li
<shaohua.li@intel.com> Adam Belay <abelay@novell.com>
(C) 2006-2007 Shaohua Li <shaohua.li@intel.com>
(C) 2006,2008 Red Hat, Inc., James Morris <jmorris@redhat.com>
(C) 2006 kogiidena
(C) 2006 by Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2006 Tim Small
(C) 2006 Thomas Maier <balagi@justmail.de>
(C) 2006 Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
(C) 2006 Simtec Electronics
(C) 2006 Red Hat Inc Alan Cox
(C) 2006 Red Hat Inc
(C) 2006 Red Hat <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>
(C) 2006 Red Hat
(C) 2006 Rafael J. Wysocki <rjw@sisk.pl>
(C) 2006 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2006 Montavista Software
(C) 2006 MontaVista Software, Inc. Vitaly Bordug <vbordug@ru.mvista.com>
(C) 2006 Michael Ellerman, IBM Corp
(C) 2006 IBM Corp
(C) 2005-2017 by Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
(C) 2005-2012 by Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@netfilter.org>
(C) 2005-2012 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2005-2007 Linux Networx (http://lnxi.com)
(C) 2005-2006 Red Hat Inc Alan Cox <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>
(C) 2005-2006 Red Hat Inc
(C) 2005-2006 Netfilter Core Team <coreteam@netfilter.org>
(C) 2005-2006 MontaVista Software, Inc. Vitaly Bordug <vbordug@ru.mvista.com>
(C) 2005-2006 Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
(C) 2005, 2006 Red Hat Inc.
(C) 2005, 2006 Linux Networx (http://lnxi.com)
(C) 2005 by Harald Welte <laforge@netfilter.org>
(C) 2005 by Christian Hentschel <chentschel@arnet.com.ar>
(C) 2005 USAGI/WIDE Project <http://www.linux-ipv6.org>
(C) 2005 Thomas Winischhofer.
(C) 2005 Thomas Gleixner <tglx@linutronix.de>
(C) 2005 Red Hat Inc Alan Cox <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>
(C) 2005 Red Hat Inc
(C) 2005 Red Hat (http://www.redhat.com)
(C) 2005 Red Hat <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk>
(C) 2005 Red Hat
(C) 2005 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2005 Pablo Neira Ayuso <pablo@eurodev.net>
(C) 2005 Nokia Corporation
(C) 2005 Michel Xhaard mxhaard@magic.fr
(C) 2005 John Williams
(C) 2005 Harald Welte <laforge@netfilter.org>
(C) 2005 Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
(C) 2005 Georges Toth <g.toth@e-biz.lu>
(C) 2005 Frank Rowand (frowand@mvista.com)Vitaly Wool <vwool@ru.mvista.com> and
Sergei Shtylyov <sshtylyov@ru.mvista.com>
(C) 2005 Frank Rowand (frowand@mvista.com)
(C) 2005 Finn Thain
(C) 2005 EADS Astrium
(C) 2005 Chuck Lever <cel@netapp.com>
(C) 2005 Benedikt Spranger <b.spranger@linutronix.de>
(C) 2004-2009 Dominik Brodowski <linux@dominikbrodowski.de>
(C) 2004-2006 by Jan-Benedict Glaw <jbglaw@lug-owl.de>
(C) 2004-2006 Sebastian Witt <se.witt@gmx.net>
(C) 2004-2006 Luc Saillard (luc@saillard.org)
(C) 2004,2005 Benjamin Herrenscmidt, IBM Corp.
(C) 2004 jornada 720 kbd driver by Alex Lange <chicken@handhelds.org>
(C) 2004 by Eric Lemoine (eric.lemoine@gmail.com)
(C) 2004 by Bart De Schuymer <bdschuym@pandora.be>
(C) 2004 Zou Nan hai <nanhai.zou@intel.com>.
(C) 2004 VIA Technologies Inc.
(C) 2004 Tom Rini (trini@mvista.com)
(C) 2004 Rusty Russell <rusty@rustcorp.com.au> IBM Corporation
(C) 2004 Red Hat
(C) 2004 Pavel Machek <pavel@ucw.cz>
(C) 2004 Paul Serice
(C) 2004 Nadia Yvette Chambers, Oracle
(C) 2004 NTT DATA Intellilink Co. http://www.intellilink.co.jp/
(C) 2004 Linux Networx (http://lnxi.com)
(C) 2004 Kalev Lember <kalev@smartlink.ee>
(C) 2004 Intracom, S.A.
(C) 2004 IBM Corporation by Xenia Tkatschow (xenia@us.ibm.com) Stefan Weinhuber
(wein@de.ibm.com)
(C) 2004 Hiroshi Miura <miura@da-cha.org>
(C) 2004 Dominik Brodowski <linux@dominikbrodowski.de>
(C) 2004 Dominik Brodowski <linux@brodo.de>
(C) 2004 Dominik Brodowski
(C) 2004 David Bronaugh <dbronaugh>
(C) 2004 Dan Brown <dan_brown@ieee.org>
(C) 2004 Bruno Ducrot <ducrot@poupinou.org>
(C) 2004  Stefano Mozzi
(C) 2003-2006 Netfilter Core Team <coreteam@netfilter.org>
(C) 2003-2005 Netfilter Core Team <coreteam@netfilter.org>
(C) 2003-2004 by Harald Welte <laforge@netfilter.org> Fabio Olive Leite
<olive@unixforge.org>
(C) 2003-2004 by Harald Welte <laforge@netfilter.org>
(C) 2003-2004 Paul Clements, SteelEye Technology: persistent bitmap code
(C) 2003,2004 USAGI/WIDE Project <http://www.linux-ipv6.org>
(C) 2003, 2004, 2006 Andriy Skulysh
(C) 2003, 2004 Paul Mundt
(C) 2003 zecke@handhelds.org
(C) 2003 by Sampsa Ranta <sampsa@netsonic.fi>
(C) 2003 by Patrick Mchardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2003 Yasuyuki Kozakai @USAGI <yasuyuki.kozakai@toshiba.co.jp>
(C) 2003 Venkatesh Pallipadi <venkatesh.pallipadi@intel.com>. Jun Nakajima
<jun.nakajima@intel.com>
(C) 2003 Venkatesh Pallipadi <venkatesh.pallipadi@intel.com>.
(C) 2003 Red Hat, Inc.
(C) 2003 Marc Zyngier <maz@wild-wind.fr.eu.org> by Thomas Bogendoerfer
(C) 2003 Marc Zyngier <maz@wild-wind.fr.eu.org>
(C) 2003 Linux Networx (http://lnxi.com)
(C) 2003 Jun Nakajima <jun.nakajima@intel.com>
(C) 2003 Jozsef Kadlecsik <kadlec@netfilter.org>
(C) 2003 John Whitney (john.whitney@timesys.com)
(C) 2003 IBM Corporation by Martin Schwidefsky (schwidefsky@de.ibm.com)
(C) 2003 Hiroshi Miura <miura@da-cha.org>
(C) 2003 Dave Jones.
(C) 2003 Dave Jones on behalf of SuSE Labs.
(C) 2003 Dave Jones on behalf of SuSE Labs
(C) 2003 Christoph Jungegger <disdos@traum404.de>
(C) 2003 Bruno Ducrot
(C) 2003 Ardis Technologies <roman@ardistech.com> 
(C) 2003 Ardis Technologies <roman@ardistech.com>
(C) 2003 Andreas Gruenbacher <agruen@suse.de>
(C) 2003 - 2010	Dominik Brodowski
(C) 2003 - 2008	Dominik Brodowski
(C) 2003 - 2004 Dominik Brodowski <linux@dominikbrodowski.de>
(C) 2003 - 2004 Dominik Brodowski
(C) 2003 - 2004	Dominik Brodowski
(C) 2003 - 2004	David Woodhouse
(C) 2002-2013 Jozsef Kadlecsik <kadlec@netfilter.org>
(C) 2002-2006 by Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
(C) 2002-2006 Netfilter Core Team <coreteam@netfilter.org>
(C) 2002-2005 by Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
(C) 2002-2005 Netfilter Core Team <coreteam@netfilter.org>
(C) 2002-2005 BUFFALO INC.
(C) 2002-2004 Netfilter Core Team <coreteam@netfilter.org>
(C) 2002-2004 Ingo Molnar, Red Hat
(C) 2002-2003 Nadia Yvette Chambers, IBM
(C) 2002-2003 Intel Corp Inaky Perez-Gonzalez <inaky.perez-gonzalez@intel.com>.
(C) 2002, 2003 Marc Zyngier <maz@wild-wind.fr.eu.org>
(C) 2002 by gaoyonghong
(C) 2002 by Harald Welte <laforge@netfilter.org>
(C) 2002 by Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
(C) 2002 by Brian J. Murrell <netfilter@interlinx.bc.ca>
(C) 2002 by Adam Belay <ambx1@neo.rr.com>
(C) 2002 Zwane Mwaikambo <zwane@commfireservices.com>
(C) 2002 Tora T. Engstad All Rights Reserved
(C) 2002 Samuel Chessman
(C) 2002 Red Hat
(C) 2002 Pascal Dameme <netinet@freesurf.fr> and Marc Zyngier
<mzyngier@freesurf.fr>
(C) 2002 Padraig Brady. <padraig@antefacto.com>
(C) 2002 Oliver Neukum
(C) 2002 Nadia Yvette Chambers, IBM
(C) 2002 Martin Devera (devik@cdi.cz).
(C) 2002 Louis Zhuang <louis.zhuang@intel.com>. 2007 Alexander Eichner 2008
Pekka Paalanen <pq@iki.fi>
(C) 2002 Hiroshi Miura <miura@da-cha.org> All Rights Reserved
(C) 2002 Hirokazu Takahashi <taka@valinux.co.jp>
(C) 2002 Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
(C) 2002 David Woodhouse <dwmw2@infradead.org>
(C) 2002 Atom Create Engineering Co., Ltd.
(C) 2002 Arjan van de Ven <arjanv@redhat.com>
(C) 2002 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
(C) 2002 Alan Stern <stern@rowland.org>
(C) 2002 - 2004 Dominik Brodowski <linux@brodo.de>
(C) 2002 - 2003 Dominik Brodowski <linux@brodo.de>
(C) 2001-2004 Dave Jones.
(C) 2001-2003 Red Hat, Inc.
(C) 2001-2003 Bart De Schuymer <bdschuym@pandora.be>
(C) 2001-2002 Patrick McHardy <kaber@trash.net>
(C) 2001-2002 Magnus Boden <mb@ozaba.mine.nu>
(C) 2001-2002 Maciej Soltysiak <solt@dns.toxicfilms.tv>
(C) 2001-2002 IBM Deutschland Entwicklung GmbH
(C) 2001-2002 Björn Stenberg (bjorn@haxx.se)
(C) 2001-2002 Andras Kis-Szabo <kisza@sch.bme.hu>
(C) 2001,2006 IBM Corporation
(C) 2001,2002,2006 by Jan-Benedict Glaw <jbglaw@lug-owl.de>
(C) 2001,2002,2003 Benjamin Herrenscmidt (benh@kernel.crashing.org)
(C) 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 Rusty Russell
(C) 2001, 2002 by: Alan Cox <alan@redhat.com> Thomas Hood Brian Gerst
<bgerst@didntduck.org>
(C) 2001 by Jay Schulist <jschlst@samba.org>,
(C) 2001 by Jay Schulist <jschlst@samba.org>
(C) 2001 by     Karsten Merker <merker@linuxtag.org> and        Maciej W.
Rozycki <macro@ds2.pg.gda.pl>
(C) 2001 Red Hat, Inc.
(C) 2001 Martin Josefsson <gandalf@wlug.westbo.se>
(C) 2001 Marc Boucher (marc@mbsi.ca).
(C) 2001 IBM Deutschland Entwicklung GmbH by Carsten Otte and Michael Holzheu
(cotte@de.ibm.com,holzheu@de.ibm.com)
(C) 2001 IBM Corporation by Fritz Elfert (felfert@millenux.com)
(C) 2001 IBM Corp. by Fritz Elfert (felfert@millenux.com)
(C) 2001 Dimitromanolakis Apostolos <apdim@grecian.net>
(C) 2001 Dave Jones, Arjan van de ven.
(C) 2001 Clemson University and The University of Chicago
(C) 2001 Brad Hards
(C) 2001 Andreas Gruenbacher, <a.gruenbacher@computer.org>
(C) 2001 - 2013 Tensilica Inc.
(C) 2001 - 2007 Tensilica Inc. Kevin Chea <kchea@yahoo.com> Marc Gauthier
<marc@linux-xtensa.org> Chris Zankel <chris@zankel.net>
(C) 2001 - 2005 Tensilica Inc.
(C) 2000-2005 by Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
(C) 2000-2004 by Harald Welte <laforge@netfilter.org>
(C) 2000-2003 Dave Jones, Arjan van de Ven, Janne Pänkälä, Dominik Brodowski.
(C) 2000-2002 by Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
(C) 2000-2002 James Morris <jmorris@intercode.com.au>
(C) 2000-2002 Harald Welte <laforge@netfilter.org>
(C) 2000-2001 by Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
(C) 2000-2001 Svenning Soerensen <svenning@post5.tele.dk>
(C) 2000-2001 Felix Domke (tmbinc@gmx.net), Gillem (htoa@gmx.net)
(C) 2000,2005 by Harald Welte <laforge@netfilter.org>
(C) 2000,2001,2002,2003,2004 Omnikey AG
(C) 2000,2001 by Harald Welte <laforge@netfilter.org>
(C) 2000 by Matthew G. Marsh <mgm@paktronix.com>
(C) 2000 by Harald Welte <laforge@netfilter.org>
(C) 2000 by Harald Welte <laforge@gnumonks.org>
(C) 2000 YAEGASHI Takeshi
(C) 2000 Stelias Computing Inc
(C) 2000 Rusty Russell
(C) 2000 Red Hat.
(C) 2000 Red Hat
(C) 2000 Nicolas Pitre <nico@fluxnic.net>
(C) 2000 Marc Boucher <marc@mbsi.ca>
(C) 2000 In-System Design, Inc. (support@in-system.com)
(C) 2000 IBM Corp. by Fritz Elfert (felfert@millenux.com)
(C) 2000 David Brown <usb-storage@davidb.org>
(C) 2000 Carnegie Mellon University
(C) 2000 Andrea Arcangeli <andrea@suse.de> Jens Axboe <axboe@suse.de> NeilBrown
<neilb@cse.unsw.edu.au> July2000 Jens Axboe <axboe@suse.de> - may 2001
(C) 2000 Aleph One Ltd (Tak-Shing Chan) Russell King.
(C) 1999-2008 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
(C) 1999-2004 Nemosoft Unv.
(C) 1999-2004 Ben Fennema
(C) 1999-2003 Nemosoft Unv.
(C) 1999-2001 by Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
(C) 1999-2001 Torben Mathiasen <tmm@image.dk, torben.mathiasen@compaq.com>
(C) 1999-2001 Torben Mathiasen
(C) 1999-2001 Paul `Rusty' Russell
(C) 1999-2001 Michal Ludvig <michal@logix.cz>
(C) 1999-2001 Marc Boucher <marc@mbsi.ca>
(C) 1999-2001 James Morris <jmorros@intercode.com.au>
(C) 1999-2001 Ben Fennema
(C) 1999-2000 Yon Uriarte <yon@astaro.de>
(C) 1999-2000 Stelias Computing Inc
(C) 1999-2000 Kurt Garloff
(C) 1999,2000 Nortel Networks.
(C) 1999 by Joshua M. Thompson (funaho@jurai.org)
(C) 1999 Ulf Carlsson (ulfc@thepuffingruop.com)
(C) 1999 Trond Myklebust <trond.myklebust@fys.uio.no>
(C) 1999 Thomas Bogendoerfer (tsbogend@alpha.franken.de)
(C) 1999 Stelias Computing Inc
(C) 1999 Rusty Russell (rusty@rustcorp.com.au).
(C) 1999 Rt-Control, Inc. Evan Stawnyczy <e@lineo.ca>
(C) 1999 Nicolas Pitre <nico@fluxnic.net>
(C) 1999 Mihai Spatar
(C) 1999 Jérôme de Vivie <devivie@info.enserb.u-bordeaux.fr>
(C) 1999 Hervé Eychenne <eychenne@info.enserb.u-bordeaux.fr>
(C) 1999 Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de>
(C) 1999 David Huggins-Daines <dhd@debian.org>
(C) 1999 David Airlie, airlied@linux.ie 07-SEP-99
(C) 1999 David A. Hinds
(C) 1999 Dave Airlie, University of Limerick, Ireland <airlied@linux.ie>
(C) 1999 Chris Kemp and Tim Watterton
(C) 1999 Benjamin Reed. All Rights Reserved. Javier Achirica
achirica@users.sourceforge.net> and Jean Tourrilhes <jt@hpl.hp.com> Fabrice
Bellet fabrice@bellet.info>.
(C) 1999 Benjamin Reed. All Rights Reserved.
(C) 1999 Benjamin Reed
(C) 1999 Andrea Arcangeli, SuSE GmbH, andrea@suse.de Gerhard Wichert, Siemens
AG, Gerhard.Wichert@pdb.siemens.de
(C) 1999 Andrea Arcangeli <andrea@suse.de> (dynamic inode allocation)
(C) 1999 Andrea Arcangeli <andrea@suse.de>
(C) 1998-2004 Ben Fennema
(C) 1998-2001 Ben Fennema
(C) 1998-2000 Thomas Sailer
(C) 1998-1999 Dave Boynton
(C) 1998,1999 Kenneth Albanowski, D. Jeff Dionne
(C) 1998 Tom Lees <tom@lpsg.demon.co.uk>  David Hinds
<dahinds@users.sourceforge.net>
(C) 1998 Thomas Bogendoerfer (tsbogend@alpha.franken.de)
(C) 1998 Thomas Bogendoerfer
(C) 1998 Stephen Tweedie
(C) 1998 Red Hat
(C) 1998 Michael Tesch (tesch@cs.wisc.edu)
(C) 1998 Krzysztof G. Baranowski
(C) 1998 James Banks
(C) 1998 Dave Boynton
(C) 1998 Christian Schmidt (chr.schmidt@tu-bs.de)
(C) 1998 Christian Schmidt <schmidt@digadd.de>
(C) 1998 Ben Pfaff
(C) 1998 Alan Cox
(C) 1997-1998 by Thomas Sailer
(C) 1997-1998 Caldera, Inc.
(C) 1997 Thomas Schoebel-Theuer, Linus Torvalds
(C) 1997 M. Kirkwood Alan Cox <alan@lxorguk.ukuu.org.uk> Russell Kroll
<rkroll@exploits.org>
(C) 1997 Linus Torvalds
(C) 1997 Carnegie Mellon University
(C) 1996-2000 Thomas Sailer
(C) 1996-1998 by Thomas Sailer
(C) 1996,1998 by Thomas Bogendoerfer (tsbogend@alpha.franken.de)
(C) 1996, Peter J. Braam
(C) 1996 by Thomas Bogendoerfer (tsbogend@bigbug.franken.de)
(C) 1996 Philip Blundell & Russell King.
(C) 1996 Peter Braam
(C) 1996 P. Braam and M. Callahan
(C) 1996 Miguel de Icaza
(C) 1996 Gordon Chaffee
(C) 1995 by Andreas Busse (andy@waldorf-gmbh.de)
(C) 1995 Linus Torvalds
(C) 1994-2001 Russell King
(C) 1994, 1995, 1996,1997 Russell King
(C) 1994 Linus Torvalds
(C) 1994 FUTURE DOMAIN CORP.
(C) 1993, Ralf Baechle
(C) 1993, Hamish Macdonald
(C) 1993 by Hamish Macdonald
(C) 1993 Ray Burr
(C) 1993 Future Domain Corp.
(C) 1992,1993 Brad McLean.
(C) 1992, 1993, 1994 Eric Youngdale
(C) 1992, 1993 Linus Torvalds, (C) 1997 Ingo Molnar
(C) 1992, 1993 Eric Youngdale
(C) 1992 Eric Youngdale Modified
(C) 1992 Eric Youngdale
(C) 1991, 1992 by Linus Torvalds
(C) 1991 Linus Torvalds 1992, 1993, 1994 Eric Youngdale1994 Eberhard Mönkeberg
1995 Mark Dobie 1997 Gordon Chaffee 1998 Eric Lammerts 2004 Paul Serice 2004
Paul Serice
(C) 1991 Linus Torvalds
Copyright (c) 1996 John Shifflett, GeoLog Consulting