================================================================================

TileDB-2.26.2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

LICENSES 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Apache-2.0 WITH LLVM-exception
Apache License
Version 2.0, January 2004
http://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

1. Definitions.

"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and
distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright
owner that is granting the License.

"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other entities
that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity.
For the purposes of this definition, "control" means (i) the power, direct or
indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by
contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising
permissions granted by this License.

"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications, including
but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and configuration
files.

"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or
translation of a Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code,
generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.

"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made
available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included
in or attached to the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that
is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions,
annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an
original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works
shall not include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by
name) to the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the original version
of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works
thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work
by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit
on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition,
"submitted" means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems, and
issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for
the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding communication
that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright
owner as "Not a Contribution."

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf
of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently
incorporated within the Work.

2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-
exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to reproduce,
prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and
distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License,
each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-
charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent
license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise
transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims
licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work
to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation
against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit)
alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work
constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date
such litigation is filed.

4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or
Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in
Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:

(a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy of
this License; and

(b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that
You changed the files; and

(c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You
distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the
Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part
of the Derivative Works; and

(d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then
any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the
attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices
that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the
following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the
Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along
with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative
Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of
the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the
License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that
You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work,
provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as
modifying the License.

You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may provide
additional or different license terms and conditions for use, reproduction, or
distribution of Your modifications, or for any such Derivative Works as a whole,
provided Your use, reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies
with the conditions stated in this License.

5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any
Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the
Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any
additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall
supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have
executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names,
trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required
for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and
reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in
writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its
Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties
or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks
associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in
tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by
applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in
writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any
direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character
arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage,
computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or
losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such
damages.

9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or
Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for,
acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations
and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such
obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole
responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to
indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred
by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting any
such warranty or additional liability.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following boilerplate
notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own
identifying information. (Don't include the brackets!) The text should be
enclosed in the appropriate comment syntax for the file format. We also
recommend that a file or class name and description of purpose be included on
the same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier identification within
third-party archives.

Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

---- LLVM Exceptions to the Apache 2.0 License ----

As an exception, if, as a result of your compiling your source code, portions
of this Software are embedded into an Object form of such source code, you
may redistribute such embedded portions in such Object form without complying
with the conditions of Sections 4(a), 4(b) and 4(d) of the License.

In addition, if you combine or link compiled forms of this Software with
software that is licensed under the GPLv2 ("Combined Software") and if a
court of competent jurisdiction determines that the patent provision (Section
3), the indemnity provision (Section 9) or other Section of the License
conflicts with the conditions of the GPLv2, you may retroactively and
prospectively choose to deem waived or otherwise exclude such Section(s) of
the License, but only in their entirety and only with respect to the Combined
Software.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Permission-Notice

Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute and sell this software
and its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and
that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear
in supporting documentation. Silicon Graphics makes no
representations about the suitability of this software for any
purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC-BY-4.0

Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International

 Creative Commons Corporation ("Creative Commons") is not a law firm and does
not provide legal services or legal advice. Distribution of Creative Commons
public licenses does not create a lawyer-client or other relationship. Creative
Commons makes its licenses and related information available on an "as-is"
basis. Creative Commons gives no warranties regarding its licenses, any material
licensed under their terms and conditions, or any related information. Creative
Commons disclaims all liability for damages resulting from their use to the
fullest extent possible.

Using Creative Commons Public Licenses

Creative Commons public licenses provide a standard set of terms and conditions
that creators and other rights holders may use to share original works of
authorship and other material subject to copyright and certain other rights
specified in the public license below. The following considerations are for
informational purposes only, are not exhaustive, and do not form part of our
licenses.

Considerations for licensors: Our public licenses are intended for use by those
authorized to give the public permission to use material in ways otherwise
restricted by copyright and certain other rights. Our licenses are irrevocable.
Licensors should read and understand the terms and conditions of the license
they choose before applying it. Licensors should also secure all rights
necessary before applying our licenses so that the public can reuse the material
as expected. Licensors should clearly mark any material not subject to the
license. This includes other CC-licensed material, or material used under an
exception or limitation to copyright. More considerations for licensors.

Considerations for the public: By using one of our public licenses, a licensor
grants the public permission to use the licensed material under specified terms
and conditions. If the licensor's permission is not necessary for any reason-for
example, because of any applicable exception or limitation to copyright-then
that use is not regulated by the license. Our licenses grant only permissions
under copyright and certain other rights that a licensor has authority to grant.
Use of the licensed material may still be restricted for other reasons,
including because others have copyright or other rights in the material. A
licensor may make special requests, such as asking that all changes be marked or
described. Although not required by our licenses, you are encouraged to respect
those requests where reasonable. More considerations for the public.

Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Public License

By exercising the Licensed Rights (defined below), You accept and agree to be
bound by the terms and conditions of this Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International Public License ("Public License"). To the extent this Public
License may be interpreted as a contract, You are granted the Licensed Rights in
consideration of Your acceptance of these terms and conditions, and the Licensor
grants You such rights in consideration of benefits the Licensor receives from
making the Licensed Material available under these terms and conditions.

Section 1 - Definitions.

     a. Adapted Material means material subject to Copyright and Similar Rights
that is derived from or based upon the Licensed Material and in which the
Licensed Material is translated, altered, arranged, transformed, or otherwise
modified in a manner requiring permission under the Copyright and Similar Rights
held by the Licensor. For purposes of this Public License, where the Licensed
Material is a musical work, performance, or sound recording, Adapted Material is
always produced where the Licensed Material is synched in timed relation with a
moving image.

     b. Adapter's License means the license You apply to Your Copyright and
Similar Rights in Your contributions to Adapted Material in accordance with the
terms and conditions of this Public License.

     c. Copyright and Similar Rights means copyright and/or similar rights
closely related to copyright including, without limitation, performance,
broadcast, sound recording, and Sui Generis Database Rights, without regard to
how the rights are labeled or categorized. For purposes of this Public License,
the rights specified in Section 2(b)(1)-(2) are not Copyright and Similar
Rights.

     d. Effective Technological Measures means those measures that, in the
absence of proper authority, may not be circumvented under laws fulfilling
obligations under Article 11 of the WIPO Copyright Treaty adopted on December
20, 1996, and/or similar international agreements.

     e. Exceptions and Limitations means fair use, fair dealing, and/or any
other exception or limitation to Copyright and Similar Rights that applies to
Your use of the Licensed Material.

     f. Licensed Material means the artistic or literary work, database, or
other material to which the Licensor applied this Public License.

     g. Licensed Rights means the rights granted to You subject to the terms and
conditions of this Public License, which are limited to all Copyright and
Similar Rights that apply to Your use of the Licensed Material and that the
Licensor has authority to license.

     h. Licensor means the individual(s) or entity(ies) granting rights under
this Public License.

     i. Share means to provide material to the public by any means or process
that requires permission under the Licensed Rights, such as reproduction, public
display, public performance, distribution, dissemination, communication, or
importation, and to make material available to the public including in ways that
members of the public may access the material from a place and at a time
individually chosen by them.

     j. Sui Generis Database Rights means rights other than copyright resulting
from Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March
1996 on the legal protection of databases, as amended and/or succeeded, as well
as other essentially equivalent rights anywhere in the world.

     k. You means the individual or entity exercising the Licensed Rights under
this Public License. Your has a corresponding meaning.

Section 2 - Scope.

     a.	License grant.

          1. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Public License, the
Licensor hereby grants You a worldwide, royalty-free, non-sublicensable, non-
exclusive, irrevocable license to exercise the Licensed Rights in the Licensed
Material to:

               A. reproduce and Share the Licensed Material, in whole or in
part; and

               B. produce, reproduce, and Share Adapted Material.

          2. Exceptions and Limitations. For the avoidance of doubt, where
Exceptions and Limitations apply to Your use, this Public License does not
apply, and You do not need to comply with its terms and conditions.

          3. Term. The term of this Public License is specified in Section 6(a).

          4. Media and formats; technical modifications allowed. The Licensor
authorizes You to exercise the Licensed Rights in all media and formats whether
now known or hereafter created, and to make technical modifications necessary to
do so. The Licensor waives and/or agrees not to assert any right or authority to
forbid You from making technical modifications necessary to exercise the
Licensed Rights, including technical modifications necessary to circumvent
Effective Technological Measures. For purposes of this Public License, simply
making modifications authorized by this Section 2(a)(4) never produces Adapted
Material.

          5. Downstream recipients.

               A. Offer from the Licensor - Licensed Material. Every recipient
of the Licensed Material automatically receives an offer from the Licensor to
exercise the Licensed Rights under the terms and conditions of this Public
License.

               B. No downstream restrictions. You may not offer or impose any
additional or different terms or conditions on, or apply any Effective
Technological Measures to, the Licensed Material if doing so restricts exercise
of the Licensed Rights by any recipient of the Licensed Material.

          6.  No endorsement. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may
be construed as permission to assert or imply that You are, or that Your use of
the Licensed Material is, connected with, or sponsored, endorsed, or granted
official status by, the Licensor or others designated to receive attribution as
provided in Section 3(a)(1)(A)(i).

b. Other rights.

          1. Moral rights, such as the right of integrity, are not licensed
under this Public License, nor are publicity, privacy, and/or other similar
personality rights; however, to the extent possible, the Licensor waives and/or
agrees not to assert any such rights held by the Licensor to the limited extent
necessary to allow You to exercise the Licensed Rights, but not otherwise.

          2. Patent and trademark rights are not licensed under this Public
License.

          3. To the extent possible, the Licensor waives any right to collect
royalties from You for the exercise of the Licensed Rights, whether directly or
through a collecting society under any voluntary or waivable statutory or
compulsory licensing scheme. In all other cases the Licensor expressly reserves
any right to collect such royalties.

Section 3 - License Conditions.

Your exercise of the Licensed Rights is expressly made subject to the following
conditions.

     a.	Attribution.

          1. If You Share the Licensed Material (including in modified form),
You must:

               A. retain the following if it is supplied by the Licensor with
the Licensed Material:

                    i. identification of the creator(s) of the Licensed Material
and any others designated to receive attribution, in any reasonable manner
requested by the Licensor (including by pseudonym if designated);

                    ii. a copyright notice;

                    iii. a notice that refers to this Public License;

                    iv.	a notice that refers to the disclaimer of warranties;

                    v. a URI or hyperlink to the Licensed Material to the extent
reasonably practicable;

               B. indicate if You modified the Licensed Material and retain an
indication of any previous modifications; and

               C. indicate the Licensed Material is licensed under this Public
License, and include the text of, or the URI or hyperlink to, this Public
License.

          2. You may satisfy the conditions in Section 3(a)(1) in any reasonable
manner based on the medium, means, and context in which You Share the Licensed
Material. For example, it may be reasonable to satisfy the conditions by
providing a URI or hyperlink to a resource that includes the required
information.

          3. If requested by the Licensor, You must remove any of the
information required by Section 3(a)(1)(A) to the extent reasonably practicable.

          4. If You Share Adapted Material You produce, the Adapter's License
You apply must not prevent recipients of the Adapted Material from complying
with this Public License.

Section 4 - Sui Generis Database Rights.

Where the Licensed Rights include Sui Generis Database Rights that apply to Your
use of the Licensed Material:

     a. for the avoidance of doubt, Section 2(a)(1) grants You the right to
extract, reuse, reproduce, and Share all or a substantial portion of the
contents of the database;

     b. if You include all or a substantial portion of the database contents in
a database in which You have Sui Generis Database Rights, then the database in
which You have Sui Generis Database Rights (but not its individual contents) is
Adapted Material; and

     c. You must comply with the conditions in Section 3(a) if You Share all or
a substantial portion of the contents of the database.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 4 supplements and does not replace Your
obligations under this Public License where the Licensed Rights include other
Copyright and Similar Rights.

Section 5 - Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

     a. Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent
possible, the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and
makes no representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed
Material, whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without
limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the
presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where
disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer
may not apply to You.

     b. To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You
on any legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for
any direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary,
or other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License
or use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the
possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of
liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to
You.

     c. The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above
shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely
approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.

Section 6 - Term and Termination.

     a. This Public License applies for the term of the Copyright and Similar
Rights licensed here. However, if You fail to comply with this Public License,
then Your rights under this Public License terminate automatically.

     b. Where Your right to use the Licensed Material has terminated under
Section 6(a), it reinstates:

          1. automatically as of the date the violation is cured, provided it is
cured within 30 days of Your discovery of the violation; or

          2. upon express reinstatement by the Licensor.

     c. For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 6(b) does not affect any right
the Licensor may have to seek remedies for Your violations of this Public
License.

     d. For the avoidance of doubt, the Licensor may also offer the Licensed
Material under separate terms or conditions or stop distributing the Licensed
Material at any time; however, doing so will not terminate this Public License.

     e.	Sections 1, 5, 6, 7, and 8 survive termination of this Public License.

Section 7 - Other Terms and Conditions.

     a. The Licensor shall not be bound by any additional or different terms or
conditions communicated by You unless expressly agreed.

     b. Any arrangements, understandings, or agreements regarding the Licensed
Material not stated herein are separate from and independent of the terms and
conditions of this Public License.

Section 8 - Interpretation.

     a. For the avoidance of doubt, this Public License does not, and shall not
be interpreted to, reduce, limit, restrict, or impose conditions on any use of
the Licensed Material that could lawfully be made without permission under this
Public License.

     b. To the extent possible, if any provision of this Public License is
deemed unenforceable, it shall be automatically reformed to the minimum extent
necessary to make it enforceable. If the provision cannot be reformed, it shall
be severed from this Public License without affecting the enforceability of the
remaining terms and conditions.

     c. No term or condition of this Public License will be waived and no
failure to comply consented to unless expressly agreed to by the Licensor.

     d. Nothing in this Public License constitutes or may be interpreted as a
limitation upon, or waiver of, any privileges and immunities that apply to the
Licensor or You, including from the legal processes of any jurisdiction or
authority.

Creative Commons is not a party to its public licenses. Notwithstanding,
Creative Commons may elect to apply one of its public licenses to material it
publishes and in those instances will be considered the "Licensor." Except for
the limited purpose of indicating that material is shared under a Creative
Commons public license or as otherwise permitted by the Creative Commons
policies published at creativecommons.org/policies, Creative Commons does not
authorize the use of the trademark "Creative Commons" or any other trademark or
logo of Creative Commons without its prior written consent including, without
limitation, in connection with any unauthorized modifications to any of its
public licenses or any other arrangements, understandings, or agreements
concerning use of licensed material. For the avoidance of doubt, this paragraph
does not form part of the public licenses.

Creative Commons may be contacted at creativecommons.org.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Public-domain

Public domain

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC0-1.0

Creative Commons Legal Code

CC0 1.0 Universal

    CREATIVE COMMONS CORPORATION IS NOT A LAW FIRM AND DOES NOT PROVIDE
    LEGAL SERVICES. DISTRIBUTION OF THIS DOCUMENT DOES NOT CREATE AN
    ATTORNEY-CLIENT RELATIONSHIP. CREATIVE COMMONS PROVIDES THIS
    INFORMATION ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CREATIVE COMMONS MAKES NO WARRANTIES
    REGARDING THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE INFORMATION OR WORKS
    PROVIDED HEREUNDER, AND DISCLAIMS LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM
    THE USE OF THIS DOCUMENT OR THE INFORMATION OR WORKS PROVIDED
    HEREUNDER.

Statement of Purpose

The laws of most jurisdictions throughout the world automatically confer
exclusive Copyright and Related Rights (defined below) upon the creator
and subsequent owner(s) (each and all, an "owner") of an original work of
authorship and/or a database (each, a "Work").

Certain owners wish to permanently relinquish those rights to a Work for
the purpose of contributing to a commons of creative, cultural and
scientific works ("Commons") that the public can reliably and without fear
of later claims of infringement build upon, modify, incorporate in other
works, reuse and redistribute as freely as possible in any form whatsoever
and for any purposes, including without limitation commercial purposes.
These owners may contribute to the Commons to promote the ideal of a free
culture and the further production of creative, cultural and scientific
works, or to gain reputation or greater distribution for their Work in
part through the use and efforts of others.

For these and/or other purposes and motivations, and without any
expectation of additional consideration or compensation, the person
associating CC0 with a Work (the "Affirmer"), to the extent that he or she
is an owner of Copyright and Related Rights in the Work, voluntarily
elects to apply CC0 to the Work and publicly distribute the Work under its
terms, with knowledge of his or her Copyright and Related Rights in the
Work and the meaning and intended legal effect of CC0 on those rights.

1. Copyright and Related Rights. A Work made available under CC0 may be
protected by copyright and related or neighboring rights ("Copyright and
Related Rights"). Copyright and Related Rights include, but are not
limited to, the following:

  i. the right to reproduce, adapt, distribute, perform, display,
     communicate, and translate a Work;
 ii. moral rights retained by the original author(s) and/or performer(s);
iii. publicity and privacy rights pertaining to a person's image or
     likeness depicted in a Work;
 iv. rights protecting against unfair competition in regards to a Work,
     subject to the limitations in paragraph 4(a), below;
  v. rights protecting the extraction, dissemination, use and reuse of data
     in a Work;
 vi. database rights (such as those arising under Directive 96/9/EC of the
     European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal
     protection of databases, and under any national implementation
     thereof, including any amended or successor version of such
     directive); and
vii. other similar, equivalent or corresponding rights throughout the
     world based on applicable law or treaty, and any national
     implementations thereof.

2. Waiver. To the greatest extent permitted by, but not in contravention
of, applicable law, Affirmer hereby overtly, fully, permanently,
irrevocably and unconditionally waives, abandons, and surrenders all of
Affirmer's Copyright and Related Rights and associated claims and causes
of action, whether now known or unknown (including existing as well as
future claims and causes of action), in the Work (i) in all territories
worldwide, (ii) for the maximum duration provided by applicable law or
treaty (including future time extensions), (iii) in any current or future
medium and for any number of copies, and (iv) for any purpose whatsoever,
including without limitation commercial, advertising or promotional
purposes (the "Waiver"). Affirmer makes the Waiver for the benefit of each
member of the public at large and to the detriment of Affirmer's heirs and
successors, fully intending that such Waiver shall not be subject to
revocation, rescission, cancellation, termination, or any other legal or
equitable action to disrupt the quiet enjoyment of the Work by the public
as contemplated by Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose.

3. Public License Fallback. Should any part of the Waiver for any reason
be judged legally invalid or ineffective under applicable law, then the
Waiver shall be preserved to the maximum extent permitted taking into
account Affirmer's express Statement of Purpose. In addition, to the
extent the Waiver is so judged Affirmer hereby grants to each affected
person a royalty-free, non transferable, non sublicensable, non exclusive,
irrevocable and unconditional license to exercise Affirmer's Copyright and
Related Rights in the Work (i) in all territories worldwide, (ii) for the
maximum duration provided by applicable law or treaty (including future
time extensions), (iii) in any current or future medium and for any number
of copies, and (iv) for any purpose whatsoever, including without
limitation commercial, advertising or promotional purposes (the
"License"). The License shall be deemed effective as of the date CC0 was
applied by Affirmer to the Work. Should any part of the License for any
reason be judged legally invalid or ineffective under applicable law, such
partial invalidity or ineffectiveness shall not invalidate the remainder
of the License, and in such case Affirmer hereby affirms that he or she
will not (i) exercise any of his or her remaining Copyright and Related
Rights in the Work or (ii) assert any associated claims and causes of
action with respect to the Work, in either case contrary to Affirmer's
express Statement of Purpose.

4. Limitations and Disclaimers.

 a. No trademark or patent rights held by Affirmer are waived, abandoned,
    surrendered, licensed or otherwise affected by this document.
 b. Affirmer offers the Work as-is and makes no representations or
    warranties of any kind concerning the Work, express, implied,
    statutory or otherwise, including without limitation warranties of
    title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non
    infringement, or the absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or
    the present or absence of errors, whether or not discoverable, all to
    the greatest extent permissible under applicable law.
 c. Affirmer disclaims responsibility for clearing rights of other persons
    that may apply to the Work or any use thereof, including without
    limitation any person's Copyright and Related Rights in the Work.
    Further, Affirmer disclaims responsibility for obtaining any necessary
    consents, permissions or other rights required for any use of the
    Work.
 d. Affirmer understands and acknowledges that Creative Commons is not a
    party to this document and has no duty or obligation with respect to
    this CC0 or use of the Work.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification,
are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name Francesc Alted nor the names of its contributors may be used
to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its contributors may be used
to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific
prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the product nor the names of its contributors may
be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO
EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
  documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of Kitware, Inc. nor the names of Contributors
  may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
  software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
  notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
  documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

* Neither the name of Kitware, Inc. nor the names of Contributors
  may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this
  software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSD-3-Clause

Battelle Memorial Institute (hereinafter Battelle) hereby grants permission to
any person or entity lawfully obtaining a copy of this software and associated
documentation files (hereinafter “the Software”) to redistribute and use the
Software in source and binary forms, with or without modification. Such person
or entity may use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and may permit others to do so, subject to the
following conditions:

Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list
of conditions and the following disclaimers.
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or
other
Other than as used herein, neither the name Battelle Memorial Institute or
Battelle may be used in any form whatsoever without the express written consent
of Battelle.
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL BATTELLE OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MIT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial nodeions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

X11

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of
the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so,
subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM
BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF
CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall not be
used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in
this Software without prior written authorization from the X Consortium.

X Window System is a trademark of X Consortium, Inc.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BSL-1.0

Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by this
license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute, execute, and
transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the Software, and to
permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to do so, all subject to
the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including the
above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer, must be
included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and all derivative
works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative works are solely in the
form of machine-executable object code generated by a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES
OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Apache-2.0
Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "{}"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright {yyyy} {name of copyright owner}

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================

 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Apache-2.0

Apache Arrow
Copyright 2016-2024 The Apache Software Foundation

This product includes software developed at
The Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).

This product includes software from the SFrame project (BSD, 3-clause).
* Copyright (C) 2015 Dato, Inc.
* Copyright (c) 2009 Carnegie Mellon University.

This product includes software from the Feather project (Apache 2.0)
https://github.com/wesm/feather

This product includes software from the DyND project (BSD 2-clause)
https://github.com/libdynd

This product includes software from the LLVM project
 * distributed under the University of Illinois Open Source

This product includes software from the google-lint project
 * Copyright (c) 2009 Google Inc. All rights reserved.

This product includes software from the mman-win32 project
 * Copyright https://code.google.com/p/mman-win32/
 * Licensed under the MIT License;

This product includes software from the LevelDB project
 * Copyright (c) 2011 The LevelDB Authors. All rights reserved.
 * Use of this source code is governed by a BSD-style license that can be
 * Moved from Kudu http://github.com/cloudera/kudu

This product includes software from the CMake project
 * Copyright 2001-2009 Kitware, Inc.
 * Copyright 2012-2014 Continuum Analytics, Inc.
 * All rights reserved.

This product includes software from https://github.com/matthew-brett/multibuild
(BSD 2-clause)
 * Copyright (c) 2013-2016, Matt Terry and Matthew Brett; all rights reserved.

This product includes software from the Ibis project (Apache 2.0)
 * Copyright (c) 2015 Cloudera, Inc.
 * https://github.com/cloudera/ibis

This product includes software from Dremio (Apache 2.0)
  * Copyright (C) 2017-2018 Dremio Corporation
  * https://github.com/dremio/dremio-oss

This product includes software from Google Guava (Apache 2.0)
  * Copyright (C) 2007 The Guava Authors
  * https://github.com/google/guava

This product include software from CMake (BSD 3-Clause)
  * CMake - Cross Platform Makefile Generator
  * Copyright 2000-2019 Kitware, Inc. and Contributors

The web site includes files generated by Jekyll.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This product includes code from Apache Kudu, which includes the following in
its NOTICE file:

  Apache Kudu
  Copyright 2016 The Apache Software Foundation

  This product includes software developed at
  The Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).

  Portions of this software were developed at
  Cloudera, Inc (http://www.cloudera.com/).

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This product includes code from Apache ORC, which includes the following in
its NOTICE file:

  Apache ORC
  Copyright 2013-2019 The Apache Software Foundation

  This product includes software developed by The Apache Software
  Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).

  This product includes software developed by Hewlett-Packard:
  (c) Copyright [2014-2015] Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC-BY-4.0

This software includes material which is copyrighted by Google. The material is
licensed under CC-BY-4.0. The license text is provided in this document.

For more information please visit:
https://developers.google.com/static/speed/webp/images/image_layout.png

Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent possible,
the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and makes no
representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed Material,
whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without
limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the
presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where
disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer
may not apply to You.
To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on any
legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any
direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or
other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or
use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the
possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of
liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to
You.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CC-BY-4.0

This software includes software which is copyrighted by Nicolai Josuttis
(http://www.josuttis.com/contact.html) and Lewis Baker. These parts are licensed
under CC-BY-4.0. The license text is provided in this document.

For more information please visit: https://github.com/TileDB-
Inc/TileDB/blob/dev/tiledb/stdx/bits/stop_token.h

Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability.

Unless otherwise separately undertaken by the Licensor, to the extent possible,
the Licensor offers the Licensed Material as-is and as-available, and makes no
representations or warranties of any kind concerning the Licensed Material,
whether express, implied, statutory, or other. This includes, without
limitation, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, non-infringement, absence of latent or other defects, accuracy, or the
presence or absence of errors, whether or not known or discoverable. Where
disclaimers of warranties are not allowed in full or in part, this disclaimer
may not apply to You.
To the extent possible, in no event will the Licensor be liable to You on any
legal theory (including, without limitation, negligence) or otherwise for any
direct, special, indirect, incidental, consequential, punitive, exemplary, or
other losses, costs, expenses, or damages arising out of this Public License or
use of the Licensed Material, even if the Licensor has been advised of the
possibility of such losses, costs, expenses, or damages. Where a limitation of
liability is not allowed in full or in part, this limitation may not apply to
You.



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright notices

copyright 2023 TileDB, Inc
copyright 2022 University of Washington
copyright 2022 Battelle Memorial Institute
copyright (C) 2013-2022 Niels Lohmann
Copyright Tristan Brindle 2018.
Copyright Tensorflow AUTHORS
Copyright Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2017 Pablo Halpern.
Copyright 2012 Pablo Halpern.
Copyright (c) the author(s).
Copyright (c) Microsoft Corporation
Copyright (c) 2024 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2024 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2023-2024 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2023-2024 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2023 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2023 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2023 TileDB Inc
Copyright (c) 2023 MIT and Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2022-2024 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022-2024 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022-2023 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022 tiledb, inc.
Copyright (c) 2022 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2022 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021-2024 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021-2024 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021-2023 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021-2022 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021-2022 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2021 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020-2024 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020-2024 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020-2023 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020-2022 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2020-2021 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019-2024 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019-2023 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2019-2021 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018-2024 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018-2023 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018-2022 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2018-2021 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2024 WriterTileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2024 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2024 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2023 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2023 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2022 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2022 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2021 TileDB, Inc.
Copyright (c) 2017-2021 TileDB Inc.
Copyright (c) 2016 MIT and Intel Corporation
Copyright (c) 2014 Kiyoshi Masui (kiyo@physics.ubc.ca)
Copyright (c) 2013-2022 Niels Lohmann <http://nlohmann.me>.
Copyright (c) 2011 The LevelDB Authors. All rights reserved.
Copyright (c) 2009 Florian Loitsch.
Copyright (c) 2008-2009 Bjoern Hoehrmann <bjoern@hoehrmann.de> sa
http://bjoern.hoehrmann.de/utf-8/decoder/dfa/
Copyright (c) 2006-2013 Alexander Chemeris
Copyright (c) 1998 Silicon Graphics Computer Systems, Inc.
Copyright (C) 2019-present Blosc Development team <blosc@blosc.org>
Copyright (C) 2009-2018 Francesc Alted <francesc@blosc.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Andrzej K. Haczewski <ahaczewski@gmail.com>
(C) Copyright Ion Gaztanaga 2005-2012.
(C) 2002-2010 Guillaume Cottenceau

